{
    "content": "ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its Follow-up
Code: JMB-REPPreface by Guy Ryder
The Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and
its Follow-Up was originally adopted by the International Labour Conference
in June 1998. Over the subsequent twenty-four years it has become a key
international benchmark of labour standards in the context of globalization.
It contains the core principles that ILO Member States are called upon to
respect by virtue of their membership even if they have not ratified the ILO’s
Conventions in which they are expressed. When adopted, the Declaration
covered freedom of association and the effective right to collective
bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the
effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in
respect of employment and occupation. On 11 June 2022, the International
Labour Conference amended this Declaration by adding to it a safe and
healthy working environment as a fifth principle and right.
This landmark decision addresses concretely all working women and
men in all occupations and all kinds of workplaces across the world. The loss
of life, accidents, and diseases caused by inadequate safety and protection
of the working environment remain a dire reality in every country, from the
poorest to the most prosperous. The consequences in terms of lives lost or
damaged as well as the economic costs to enterprises and the economy
are enormous.
Occupational safety and health is a moving target. While some
improvements take place, new occupational risks emerge due to technological
innovation or organizational change. Physical hazards can be compounded
by mental health problems and harassment and violence at work. Increased
distance work and varying forms of labour contracts create new challenges
for health and safety regulations and their application. At times of economic
downturn or health emergencies, safety and health at work tend to come
under threat. The COVID-19 pandemic has once again demonstrated how
inextricably a healthy and safe workplace ties in with clean air, water and
the maintenance of a habitable environment. A safe and healthy working
environment proved to be an essential element of the response to the
pandemic as well as of longer-term recovery.
1Ensuring a decent working environment in industry, commerce
or services is generally of paramount importance for the surrounding
community. Measures for occupational safety and health are a crucial
ingredient in any policy mix aimed at preserving a liveable planet. Action
under the amended Declaration will help shape the just transition to
carbon neutral economies that focuses on people and promotes social
justice while protecting the planet and scarce natural resources.
The roots of the principle of a healthy and safe working environment
go back to the Preamble to the original 1919 Constitution of the ILO, which
required urgent protection of the worker against sickness, disease and injury
arising out of conditions of employment. Likewise, the 1944 Philadelphia
Declaration, which is annexed to the Constitution, states that achieving
adequate protection for the life and health of workers in all occupations is a
solemn obligation of the International Labour Organization.
Health and safety at work is also firmly established in contemporary
human rights law. In addition to Conventions, Recommendations and
Protocols adopted by the ILO it is one means of realizing the right of everyone
to “life, liberty and security of person” as referred to in the 1948 Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. The International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural rights of 1966 recognizes a right to safe and healthy
working conditions. The Constitution of the World Health Organization
also affirms that the “highest attainable standard of health is one of the
fundamental rights of every human being”.
In its report in the centenary year of the Organization, in 2019, the
ILO Global Commission on the Future of Work concluded that it was time to
recognize safety and health as a fundamental principle and right at work.
This was subsequently reaffirmed in the Centenary Declaration for the
Future of Work which was adopted by the International Labour Conference.
The Conference requested the Governing Body to make proposals as soon
as possible, for the inclusion of safe and healthy working conditions in the
ILO’s framework of fundamental principles and rights at work.
The consensus on the fundamental nature of occupational safety and
health was made clear in the Resolution on the inclusion of a safe and healthy
working environment in the ILO’s framework of fundamental principles and
rights adopted by the International Labour Conference in June 2022.
2Member countries commit themselves to fundamental principles
and rights at work when they adhere to the ILO’s Constitution. The amended
Declaration does not impose on them any new legal obligations. The inclusion
of a safe and healthy working environment is a recognition of an existing
constitutional principle which both the Member States and the Organization
itself have an obligation to promote.
Effective protection of the right to health and safety at work should
be one of the basic aims of national policy, and it calls for the mobilisation
of the tripartite actors concerned. The Declaration underlines the obligation
of the Organization to assist its Member States and their employers and
workers in achieving these objectives. The provision of such assistance was
envisaged in the follow-up of the 1998 Declaration, and it consists of two
main features: regular reporting by Member States and the social partners
and specific technical assistance programmes aimed at improvement
and remedy.
Reporting under the Declaration complements the regular standards
supervisory mechanism, which specifically deals with the Member States’
application of ratified ILO Conventions. It focuses on efforts to realize the
principles of the Conventions in states which have not yet ratified them.
Technical cooperation with governments, employers and workers plays
a key role in this process. Negotiations and social dialogue in different
countries and in varying circumstances strengthen respect for the principles
and rights concerned and remedy the effects of their violations. Achieving
a safe and healthy working environment now falls within this active
promotional framework.
At the heart of the Declaration lies a pact between the ILO and its
Members. In return for their active commitment to respect, to promote and
to realize fundamental principles and rights at work, the ILO pledges to
“assist its Members, in response to their established and expressed needs,
in order to attain these objectives by making full use of its constitutional,
operational and budgetary resources, including, by the mobilization of
external resources and support.” The ILO’s assistance to its Members to
promote the protection of occupational safety and health will operate
through labour legislation, institutions and mechanisms to benefit all
those involved. To that end, the amended Declaration instructs the ILO to
3pursue and step up its programmes and activities on all issues related to the
working environment.
The amended Declaration is not about ratification but the Conference
resolution does identify two Conventions which now fall into the category
of “fundamental”. At the end of August 2022, Convention No. 155 on
Occupational Health and Safety (1981) had received 75 ratifications while
Convention No. 187 on a Promotional Framework for Occupational Health
and Safety (2006) had received 58. Their ratification rate today is thus lower
than that of Conventions in the four other categories under the Declaration.
The rate of ratification of the earlier fundamental Conventions has risen
significantly due to the focus and assistance that the Declaration has
generated since 1998. It is reasonable to expect that the new fundamental
Conventions will experience a similar rise.
Even where ratification has not yet taken place, intensified national
and international programmes can promote the implementation of the
principle of the right to a healthy and safe working environment. The
amended Declaration also demonstrates the linkages between the different
categories of fundamental principles and rights. In practice, carrying out
programmes for freedom of association or against forced and child labour
and discrimination frequently calls for tools which also enhance occupational
safety and health. The result is an integrated approach to fundamental
principles and rights at work which both recognizes and makes use of the
fact that enabling workers and employers to freely and equally take action
to improve their working environment is an efficient way to remedy deficits
in achieving decent work generally.
Based on the Declaration the ILO will continue to cooperate with
other international organizations to support the promotion of a safe and
healthy working environment. Reflecting the indivisibility of human rights
and conditions of work, the amended Declaration will thus further support
an inclusive and coherent multilateralism which is grounded on the values
and principles of social justice.
When it approved the amended Declaration, the International
Labour Conference also noted that the rights and obligations of Member
States arising from existing trade and investment agreements are in no way
affected by it. The 1998 Declaration reaffirmed that labour standards should
4not be used for protectionist purposes. In the same vein, the 2008 Social
Justice Declaration indicated that labour standards should not be weakened
for gaining unfair trade advantage. Since the adoption of these Declarations
there has been a considerable increase in clauses on labour standards in
international commercial agreements. The process of amending the 1998
Declaration provides a reminder that such agreements can only be modified
if the parties to them freely so decide.
The amended Declaration reflects the ILO’s and its Members’
commitment to reaffirm and reinforce, at defining moments of its history,
the particular significance of constitutional principles for maintaining the
dynamic of universal social progress. It is another step in the process that
began with the founding of the ILO in 1919, to empower governments and
workers’ and employers’ organizations to effectively tackle the challenges
to freedom, dignity, rights and health in their everyday life. The policies and
measures needed include legislative and administrative decisions, labour
inspection, negotiation between social partners and continuous monitoring
of achievements. As Member States grapple with complex and uncertain
circumstances, the ILO pledges to help them develop economic and social
policies which are fully consistent with the five categories of fundamental
principles and rights at work.

Geneva, September 2022
5Preface by Michel Hansenne
On 18 June 1998 the International Labour Organization adopted the
ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its Follow-up
in Geneva, thereby taking up the challenges of globalization which have
been the focus of considerable debate within the ILO since 1994. Although
globalization is a factor of economic growth, and economic growth is a
prerequisite for social progress, the fact remains that it is not in itself enough
to guarantee that progress. It must be accompanied by a certain number of
social ground rules founded on common values to enable all those involved
to claim their fair share of the wealth they have helped to generate.
The aim of the Declaration is to reconcile the desire to stimulate
national efforts to ensure that social progress goes hand in hand with
economic progress and the need to respect the diversity of circumstances,
possibilities and preferences of individual countries.
A first step in this direction was made in Copenhagen in 1995, when
the Heads of State and Government attending the World Summit for Social
Development adopted specific commitments and a Programme of Action
relating to “basic workers’ rights” – the prohibition of forced labour and
child labour, freedom of association, the right to organize and bargain
collectively, equal remuneration for work of equal value and the elimination
of discrimination in employment. The WTO Ministerial Conference held in
Singapore in 1996 then provided the opportunity for a second step to be
taken. The States renewed their commitment to observe internationally
recognized core labour standards, recalled that the ILO was the competent
body to set and deal with these standards and reaffirmed their support for
its work in promoting them.
The adoption of the Declaration constituted the third step. It makes
a significant contribution to the aim set forth in paragraph 54(b) of the
Programme of Action adopted by the Copenhagen Summit, which is to
safeguard and promote respect for basic workers’ rights, requesting States
parties to the corresponding ILO Conventions to fully implement them and
other States to take into account the principles embodied in them.
6The existing supervisory machinery already provides the means
of assuring the application of Conventions in the States that have ratified
them. For those that have not, the Declaration makes an important new
contribution. Firstly, it recognizes that the Members of the ILO, even if
they have not ratified the Conventions in question, have an obligation
to respect “in good faith and in accordance with the Constitution, the
principles concerning the fundamental rights which are the subject of those
Conventions”. Next, and this is the first aspect of the follow-up provided in
the annex to the Declaration, it seeks to achieve this aim by implementing
the ILO’s unique Constitutional procedure in accordance with which each
year States that have not ratified the core Conventions will be asked to
submit reports on progress made in implementing the principles enshrined
in them.
Lastly, by solemnly committing itself to mobilize its budgetary
resources and its influence to help its Members to achieve the aims of
the Copenhagen Summit, the Organization goes one step further. This
commitment will be reflected in the Global Report, the second aspect of the
follow-up provided in the annex. The Global Report will provide an overview
of the progress made in the preceding four-year period both in countries
which have ratified the core Conventions as well as in those which have not.
It will serve as a basis for assessing the effectiveness of the action taken
during the preceding period and as a starting point for action plans for
future assistance.
By adopting this Declaration, the ILO has taken up the challenge
presented to it by the international community. It has established a social
minimum at the global level to respond to the realities of globalization and
can now look ahead to the new century with renewed optimism.

Geneva, June 1998
7ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Whereas the ILO was founded in the conviction that social justice is essen­-
tial to universal and lasting peace;
Whereas economic growth is essential but not sufficient to ensure equity,
social progress and the eradication of poverty, confirming the need
for the ILO to promote strong social policies, justice and democratic
institutions;
Whereas the ILO should, now more than ever, draw upon all its standard-
setting, technical cooperation and research resources in all its areas
of competence, in particular employment, vocational training and
working condi­tions, to ensure that, in the context of a global strategy
for economic and social development, economic and social policies
are mutually reinforcing components in order to create broad-based
sustainable development;
Whereas the ILO should give special attention to the problems of persons
with special social needs, particularly the unemployed and migrant
workers, and mobilize and encourage international, regional and
national efforts aimed at resolving their problems, and promote
effective policies aimed at job creation;
Whereas, in seeking to maintain the link between social progress and eco-
nomic growth, the guarantee of funda­mental principles and rights
at work is of particular significance in that it enables the persons
­concerned to claim freely and on the basis of equality of opportunity
their fair share of the wealth which they have helped to generate,
and to achieve fully their human potential;
Whereas the ILO is the constitutionally mandated inter­na­tional organization
and the competent body to set and deal with international labour
standards, and enjoys universal support and acknowledgement in
promoting fundamental rights at work as the expression of its con­
stitutional principles;
8Whereas it is urgent, in a situation of growing economic inter­dependence,
to reaffirm the immutable nature of the ­fundamental principles
and rights embodied in the Constitution of the Organization and to
promote their universal application;
The International Labour Conference,
1.
2.
3.
Recalls:
(a)that in freely joining the ILO, all Members have en­
dorsed
the principles and rights set out in its Constitution and in the
Declaration of Phila­
delphia, and have undertaken to work
towards attaining the o
­ verall objectives of the Organiza­tion to
the best of their resources and fully in line with their specific
circumstances;
(b)that these principles and rights have been ex­
pressed and
developed in the form of specific rights and obligations in
Conventions recognized as fundamental both inside and
outside the Organization.
Declares that all Members, even if they have not ­­rati­fied the
Conventions in question, have an obligation, arising from the very
fact of membership in the Organization, to respect, to promote and
to realize, in good faith and in accordance with the Constitution, the
principles concerning the fundamental rights which are the sub­-
ject of those Conventions, namely:
(a)freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right
to collective bargaining;
(b)the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour;
(c)the effective abolition of child labour;
(d)the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation; and
(e)a safe and healthy working environment.
Recognizes the obligation on the Organization to assist its Members,
in response to their established and expressed needs, in order to
9attain these objectives by making full use of its constitutional, oper­
ational and budgetary resources, including by the mobilization of
external resources and support, as well as by encouraging other
international organizations with which the ILO has established
relations, pursuant to article 12 of its Constitution, to support these
efforts:
(a)by offering technical cooperation and advisory services to pro-
mote the ratification and imple­mentation of the fundamental
Conventions;
(b)by assisting those Members not yet in a position to ratify some
or all of these Conventions in their efforts to respect, to promote
and to realize the principles concerning fundamental rights
which are the subject of those Conventions; and
(c)by helping the Members in their efforts to create a climate for
economic and social development.
4.Decides that, to give full effect to this Declaration, a promotional
follow-up, which is meaningful and effec­tive, shall be implemented
in accordance with the measures specified in the annex hereto,
which shall be considered as an integral part of this Declaration.
5.Stresses that labour standards should not be used for protectionist
trade purposes, and that nothing in this Declaration and its follow-up
shall be invoked or otherwise used for such purposes; in addition,
the comparative advantage of any country should in no way be
called into question by this Declaration and its follow-up.
10Annex (Revised)
Follow-up to the Declaration1
I. Overall purpose
1. The aim of the follow-up described below is to encourage
the efforts made by the Members of the Organization to promote the
fundamental principles and rights enshrined in the Constitution of the ILO
and the Declaration of Philadelphia and reaffirmed in this Declaration.
2. In line with this objective, which is of a strictly promotional na-
ture, this follow‑up will allow the identification of areas in which the assist­
ance of the Organization through its technical cooperation activities may
prove useful to its Members to help them implement these fundamental
principles and rights. It is not a substitute for the established supervisory
mechanisms, nor shall it impede their functioning; consequently, specific
situations within the purview of those mechanisms shall not be exam­
-
ined or re-examined within the framework of this follow-up.
3. The two aspects of this follow-up, described below, are based
on existing procedures: the annual follow-up concerning non-ratified fun-
damental Conventions will entail merely some adaptation of the present
modalities of appli­cation of article 19, paragraph 5(e), of the Constitution;
and the Global Report on the effect given to the promotion of the funda-
mental principles and rights at work that will serve to inform the recurrent
discussion at the Conference on the needs of the Members, the ILO action
undertaken, and the results achieved in the promotion of the fundamental
principles and rights at work.
  Ed. note: The original text of the Follow-up to the Declaration, as established by the
International Labour Conference in 1998, was superseded by the revised text of the annex
adopted by the International Labour Conference in 2010.
1
11II. Annual follow-up concerning non-ratified
fundamental Conventions
A. Purpose and scope
1. The purpose is to provide an opportunity to review each year, by
means of simplified procedures, the efforts made in accordance with the
Declaration by Members which have not yet ratified all the fundamental
Conventions.
2. The follow-up will cover the five categories of fundamental
principles and rights specified in the Declaration.
B. Modalities
1. The follow-up will be based on reports requested from Members
under article 19, paragraph 5(e), of the Constitution. The report forms will
be drawn up so as to obtain information from governments which have
not ratified one or more of the fundamental Conventions, on any changes
which may have taken place in their law and practice, taking due account
of article 23 of the Constitution and established practice.
2. These reports, as compiled by the Office, will be reviewed by the
Governing Body.
3. Adjustments to the Governing Body’s existing procedures should
be examined to allow Members which are not represented on the ­Governing
Body to provide, in the most appropriate way, clarifications which might
prove necessary or useful during Governing Body discussions to supple-
ment the information contained in their reports.
12III. Global Report on fundamental principles
and rights at work
A. Purpose and scope
1. The purpose of the Global Report is to provide a dynamic global
picture relating to the five categories of fundamental principles and rights
at work noted during the preceding period, and to serve as a basis for
assessing the effectiveness of the assistance provided by the Organi­zation,
and for determining priorities for the following period, including in the form
of action plans for technical cooperation designed in particular to mobilize
the internal and external resources necessary to carry them out.
B. Modalities
1. The report will be drawn up under the responsibility of the
Director-General on the basis of official information, or information gathered
and assessed in accordance with established procedures. In the case of
States which have not ratified the fundamental Conventions, it will be based
in particular on the findings of the aforementioned annual follow-up. In the
case of Members which have ratified the Conventions concerned, the report
will be based in particular on reports as dealt with pursuant to article 22 of
the Constitution. It will also refer to the experience gained from technical
cooperation and other relevant activities of the ILO.
2. This report will be submitted to the Conference for a recurrent
discussion on the strategic objective of fundamental principles and rights at
work based on the modalities agreed by the Governing Body. It will then be
for the Conference to draw conclusions from this discussion on all available
ILO means of action, including the priorities and plans of action for technical
cooperation to be implemented for the following period, and to guide the
Governing Body and the Office in their responsibilities.
13IV. It is understood that:
1. The Conference shall, in due course, review the operation of this
follow-up in the light of the experience acquired to assess whether it has
adequately fulfilled the overall purpose articulated in Part I.
14",
    "url": "https://www.ilo.org/resource/conference-paper/ilo-1998-declaration-fundamental-principles-and-rights-work-and-its-follow"
}
