{
     "content": "Non-State-based grievance mechanisms
28.	States should consider ways to facilitate access to effective non-State-
based grievance mechanisms dealing with business-related human
rights harms.
Commentary
One category of non-State-based grievance mechanisms encompasses
those administered by a business enterprise alone or with stakeholders, by
an industry association or a multi-stakeholder group. They are non-judicial,
but may use adjudicative, dialogue-based or other culturally appropriate
and rights-compatible processes. These mechanisms may offer particular
benefits such as speed of access and remediation, reduced costs and/or
transnational reach.
Another category comprises regional and international human rights
bodies. These have dealt most often with alleged violations by States of
their obligations to respect human rights. However, some have also dealt
with the failure of a State to meet its duty to protect against human rights
abuse by business enterprises.
States can play a helpful role in raising awareness of, or otherwise
facilitating access to, such options, alongside the mechanisms provided by
States themselves.
29.	
To make it possible for grievances to be addressed early and
remediated directly, business enterprises should establish or participate
in effective operational-level grievance mechanisms for individuals and
communities who may be adversely impacted.
Commentary
Operational-level grievance mechanisms are accessible directly to
individuals and communities who may be adversely impacted by a business
enterprise. They are typically administered by enterprises, alone or in
collaboration with others, including relevant stakeholders. They may also
be provided through recourse to a mutually acceptable external expert or
body. They do not require that those bringing a complaint first access other
means of recourse. They can engage the business enterprise directly in
assessing the issues and seeking remediation of any harm.32
Operational-level grievance mechanisms perform two key functions
regarding the responsibility of business enterprises to respect human rights.
• F irst, they support the identification of adverse human rights impacts as
a part of an enterprise’s ongoing human rights due diligence. They do
so by providing a channel for those directly impacted by the enterprise’s
operations to raise concerns when they believe they are being or will
be adversely impacted. By analysing trends and patterns in complaints,
business enterprises can also identify systemic problems and adapt their
practices accordingly;
• S
 econd, these mechanisms make it possible for grievances, once
identified, to be addressed and for adverse impacts to be remediated
early and directly by the business enterprise, thereby preventing harms
from compounding and grievances from escalating.
Such mechanisms need not require that a complaint or grievance amount
to an alleged human rights abuse before it can be raised, but specifically
aim to identify any legitimate concerns of those who may be adversely
impacted. If those concerns are not identified and addressed, they may
over time escalate into more major disputes and human rights abuses.
Operational-level grievance mechanisms should reflect certain criteria to
ensure their effectiveness in practice (Principle 31). These criteria can be
met through many different forms of grievance mechanism according to the
demands of scale, resource, sector, culture and other parameters.
Operational-level grievance mechanisms can be important complements
to wider stakeholder engagement and collective bargaining processes,
but cannot substitute for either. They should not be used to undermine the
role of legitimate trade unions in addressing labour-related disputes, nor
to preclude access to judicial or other non-judicial grievance mechanisms.
30.	Industry, multi-stakeholder and other collaborative initiatives that are
based on respect for human rights-related standards should ensure
that effective grievance mechanisms are available.
Commentary
Human rights-related standards are increasingly reflected in commitments
undertaken by industry bodies, multi-stakeholder and other collaborative
initiatives, through codes of conduct, performance standards, global33
framework agreements between trade
corporations, and similar undertakings.
unions
and
transnational
Such collaborative initiatives should ensure the availability of effective
mechanisms through which affected parties or their legitimate representatives
can raise concerns when they believe the commitments in question have
not been met. The legitimacy of such initiatives may be put at risk if
they do not provide for such mechanisms. The mechanisms could be at
the level of individual members, of the collaborative initiative, or both.
These mechanisms should provide for accountability and help enable the
remediation of adverse human rights impacts.
	Effectiveness criteria for non-judicial grievance mechanisms
31.	
In order to ensure their effectiveness, non-judicial grievance
mechanisms, both State-based and non-State-based, should be:
		(a)	Legitimate: enabling trust from the stakeholder groups for whose
use they are intended, and being accountable for the fair conduct
of grievance processes;
		(b)	Accessible: being known to all stakeholder groups for whose use
they are intended, and providing adequate assistance for those
who may face particular barriers to access;
		(c)	
Predictable: providing a clear and known procedure with an
indicative time frame for each stage, and clarity on the types
of process and outcome available and means of monitoring
implementation;
		(d)	
Equitable: seeking to ensure that aggrieved parties have
reasonable access to sources of information, advice and expertise
necessary to engage in a grievance process on fair, informed and
respectful terms;
		(e)	
Transparent: keeping parties to a grievance informed about
its progress, and providing sufficient information about the
mechanism’s performance to build confidence in its effectiveness
and meet any public interest at stake;34
		(f)	Rights-compatible: ensuring that outcomes and remedies accord
with internationally recognized human rights;
		(g)	A source of continuous learning: drawing on relevant measures
to identify lessons for improving the mechanism and preventing
future grievances and harms;
		Operational-level mechanisms should also be:
		(h)	Based on engagement and dialogue: consulting the stakeholder
groups for whose use they are intended on their design and
performance, and focusing on dialogue as the means to address
and resolve grievances.
Commentary
A grievance mechanism can only serve its purpose if the people it is
intended to serve know about it, trust it and are able to use it. These criteria
provide a benchmark for designing, revising or assessing a non-judicial
grievance mechanism to help ensure that it is effective in practice. Poorly
designed or implemented grievance mechanisms can risk compounding
a sense of grievance amongst affected stakeholders by heightening their
sense of disempowerment and disrespect by the process.
The first seven criteria apply to any State-based or non-State-based,
adjudicative or dialogue-based mechanism. The eighth criterion is specific
to operational-level mechanisms that business enterprises help administer.
The term “grievance mechanism” is used here as a term of art. The term
itself may not always be appropriate or helpful when applied to a specific
mechanism, but the criteria for effectiveness remain the same. Commentary
on the specific criteria follows:
(a)	Stakeholders for whose use a mechanism is intended must trust it
if they are to choose to use it. Accountability for ensuring that the
parties to a grievance process cannot interfere with its fair conduct
is typically one important factor in building stakeholder trust;
(b)	Barriers to access may include a lack of awareness of the mechanism,
language, literacy, costs, physical location and fears of reprisal;
(c) 	In order for a mechanism to be trusted and used, it should provide
public information about the procedure it offers. Time frames for35
each stage should be respected wherever possible, while allowing
that flexibility may sometimes be needed;
(d)	
In grievances or disputes between business enterprises and
affected stakeholders, the latter frequently have much less access
to information and expert resources, and often lack the financial
resources to pay for them. Where this imbalance is not redressed, it
can reduce both the achievement and perception of a fair process
and make it harder to arrive at durable solutions;
(e)	
Communicating regularly with parties about the progress of
individual grievances can be essential to retaining confidence
in the process. Providing transparency about the mechanism’s
performance to wider stakeholders, through statistics, case studies
or more detailed information about the handling of certain cases,
can be important to demonstrate its legitimacy and retain broad
trust. At the same time, confidentiality of the dialogue between
parties and of individuals’ identities should be provided where
necessary;
(f)	Grievances are frequently not framed in terms of human rights
and many do not initially raise human rights concerns. Regardless,
where outcomes have implications for human rights, care should be
taken to ensure that they are in line with internationally recognized
human rights;
(g)	Regular analysis of the frequency, patterns and causes of grievances
can enable the institution administering the mechanism to identify
and influence policies, procedures or practices that should be
altered to prevent future harm;
(h)	
For an operational-level grievance mechanism, engaging with
affected stakeholder groups about its design and performance can
help to ensure that it meets their needs, that they will use it in
practice, and that there is a shared interest in ensuring its success.
Since a business enterprise cannot, with legitimacy, both be the
subject of complaints and unilaterally determine their outcome,
these mechanisms should focus on reaching agreed solutions
through dialogue. Where adjudication is needed, this should be
provided by a legitimate, independent third-party mechanism.",
     "url": "https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/publications/guidingprinciplesbusinesshr_en.pdf"
}
