 Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms Updated Jan 20, 2016, 04:55 AM Published Aug 19, 2015, 05:00 AM More Whatsapp Linkedin Twitter FB Messenger Email Print Copy permalink Copy to clipboard https://str.sg/3teu OSLO • Norway's gigantic sovereign wealth fund has announced that it is divesting from four large Asian companies over the environmental damage their palm oil activities have on tropical forests. The world's largest public investment fund, managing 7.15 trillion kroner (S$1.23 trillion), said its decision to exclude four groups - including South Korean group Daewoo International - from its portfolio was based on "an assessment of the risk of severe environmental damage" from their conversion of tropical forests to cultivate palm oil. Daewoo, South Korean steelmaker Posco and Malaysian groups Genting and IJM were targeted in Monday's divestment decision by Norway's central bank, which manages the wealth fund that owns around 1.3 per cent of all stocks on global equity markets, with stakes in about 9,000 companies. The fund manages its investments according to strict ethical guidelines that have previously led it to exclude around 60 companies from its holdings, including Airbus, Boeing, Safran, Philip Morris and Walmart. Under the guidelines, it must avoid investments in groups accused of serious violations of human rights, child labour or serious environmental damage, as well as manufacturers of "particularly inhumane" arms and tobacco firms. The decisions by the fund - which draws investment money from Norway's huge oil revenues, a fact that has not escaped some detractors - are frequently replicated by other international investors that are also concerned about ethical perceptions of their holdings. Palm oil - used primarily in the cosmetics, food and bio-fuel sectors - is a controversial industry, with campaigns mounted by environmental groups and consumers. Daewoo ran afoul of the fund's guidelines for its 85 per cent stake in an Indonesian company accused of clearing large swathes of the country's tropical forest for palm oil cultivation. At the end of last year, the fund owned 0.91 per cent of Posco worth US$198 million (S$278 million), and 0.28 per cent of Daewoo valued at US$9 million. Its 0.4 per cent stake in Genting was worth around US$41 million, and its 1.6 per cent position in IJM was worth US$46 million. Independently of the ethical guidelines, the fund has in recent years placed increasing emphasis on environmental issues in its investments, noting that problems such as deforestation and water management can affect a company's financial viability. In early 2012, it pulled out of 23 palm oil producers, without naming them. Indonesia and Malaysia together account for about 80 per cent of global production, though the industry is growing rapidly in Africa. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Join ST's Telegram channel and get the latest breaking news delivered to you. A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Straits Times on August 19, 2015, with the headline Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms. Subscribe Environmental issues Norway Malaysia South Korea More Whatsapp Linkedin Twitter FB Messenger Email Print Copy permalink https://str.sg/3teu Read this subscriber-only article for free! Just sign up for a free account and log in to continue reading. Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms Sign up Already have an account? Log in. All done! This article is now fully available for you Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms Read now Please verify your e-mail to read this subscriber-only article in full Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms Resend verification e-mail The gift link for this subscriber-only article has expired. Get unlimited access to all stories at $0.99/month for the first 3 months. Subscribe now You have reached your limit of subscriber-only articles this month. Get unlimited access to all stories at $0.99/month for the first 3 months. Subscribe now Read and win! Read 3 articles and stand to win rewards Let's go! Terms & conditions apply Frequently asked questions Good job, you've read 3 articles today! Spin the wheel now Let's go! Terms & conditions apply Frequently asked questions OSLO • Norway's gigantic sovereign wealth fund has announced that it is divesting from four large Asian companies over the environmental damage their palm oil activities have on tropical forests. The world's largest public investment fund, managing 7.15 trillion kroner (S$1.23 trillion), said its decision to exclude four groups - including South Korean group Daewoo International - from its portfolio was based on "an assessment of the risk of severe environmental damage" from their conversion of tropical forests to cultivate palm oil. Daewoo, South Korean steelmaker Posco and Malaysian groups Genting and IJM were targeted in Monday's divestment decision by Norway's central bank, which manages the wealth fund that owns around 1.3 per cent of all stocks on global equity markets, with stakes in about 9,000 companies. The fund manages its investments according to strict ethical guidelines that have previously led it to exclude around 60 companies from its holdings, including Airbus, Boeing, Safran, Philip Morris and Walmart. Under the guidelines, it must avoid investments in groups accused of serious violations of human rights, child labour or serious environmental damage, as well as manufacturers of "particularly inhumane" arms and tobacco firms. The decisions by the fund - which draws investment money from Norway's huge oil revenues, a fact that has not escaped some detractors - are frequently replicated by other international investors that are also concerned about ethical perceptions of their holdings. Palm oil - used primarily in the cosmetics, food and bio-fuel sectors - is a controversial industry, with campaigns mounted by environmental groups and consumers. Daewoo ran afoul of the fund's guidelines for its 85 per cent stake in an Indonesian company accused of clearing large swathes of the country's tropical forest for palm oil cultivation. At the end of last year, the fund owned 0.91 per cent of Posco worth US$198 million (S$278 million), and 0.28 per cent of Daewoo valued at US$9 million. Its 0.4 per cent stake in Genting was worth around US$41 million, and its 1.6 per cent position in IJM was worth US$46 million. Independently of the ethical guidelines, the fund has in recent years placed increasing emphasis on environmental issues in its investments, noting that problems such as deforestation and water management can affect a company's financial viability. In early 2012, it pulled out of 23 palm oil producers, without naming them. Indonesia and Malaysia together account for about 80 per cent of global production, though the industry is growing rapidly in Africa. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Join ST's Telegram channel and get the latest breaking news delivered to you. A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Straits Times on August 19, 2015, with the headline Norway fund drops 4 Asian firms. Subscribe Read 3 articles and stand to win rewards Spin the wheel now