 ILO stops using funds from tobacco firms for charitable causes Email Read more Anti-Kremlin fighters launch cross-border attacks into Russia Indian troops begin Maldives pullout after quit order Pirates seize BD ship off Somali coast Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ ‘زخم اور ہڈی ٹوٹی ہوتی تو بریانی کیسے بناتا؟’، انور مقصود کی افواہوں کی تردید تقسیم کرو اور حکومت کرو، کیا یہ پالیسی اب بھی جاری رہے گی؟ عروج و زوال سے بھری پاکستان کی صدارتی تاریخ Russia Accuses US Of Trying To Meddle In Presidential Election IMF Program: Former Federal Minister Muhammad Zubair’s Important Statement Why Are German Lawyers Suing Their Lawmakers? Is A Pier More Important Than Ceasefire? PM Shehbaz Sharif’s 19-Member Cabinet: Who Got Which Ministry? Explained: Israel, Brazil Ties Should PIA Be Privatised? Week’s Must-Know Headlines: Pope Francis Urges Ukraine To Pursue Negotiations With Russia For Peace Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ Latest Stories IMF team arriving in Pakistan for bailout review: report India’s Pant says doctors considered leg amputation after car crash PIA pilots advised not to fly while fasting Maryam forms three-member body to monitor development initiatives Call for deepening trade ties with US No relief for consumers as retailers defy govt Recipes to up your iftar game this Ramazan Sneaker culture is taking off in Pakistan — but there’s more to being a sneakerhead than having really cool kicks Delete, not block: Bushra Ansari’s guide to dealing with loved ones who ghost you Most Popular Ishaq Dar becomes FM as PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet sworn in SC asks how ownership of Margalla land given to military New blood joins old guard in federal cabinet India conducts first flight test of MIRV domestic missile India moves before election to implement citizenship law opposed by Muslims Won’t tolerate intimidation of press, says CJP Is Aseefa Bhutto-Zardari going to be the first lady? Here’s everything we know so far Cartoon: 12 March, 2024 Finance czar commits to continuing caretakers’ policies Must Read Editorial: It is encouraging to see the PTI maturing politically, but it must do more The more things change in Pakistan’s politics, the more they remain the same Sneaker culture is taking off in Pakistan — but there’s more to being a sneakerhead than having really cool kicks No place for medics All you need to know about the new faces in PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet Opinion No place for medics Of old and new faces Blighted Britain Women in Punjab Caretaker by any other name Editorial Political faults Exclusionary law Online darkness PDM redux Amnesty plan Crushing protests Tribunal upholds ruling against P&G Ishaq Dar becomes FM as PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet sworn in ILO stops using funds from tobacco firms for charitable causes AFP Published November 2, 2019 0 Join our Whatsapp channel GENEVA: The UN labour organisation has agreed not to renew controversial funding from tobacco companies for charitable programmes, but has left the door open to cooperating with the industry on future projects. The International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) governing body finally reached a compromise on Thursday night on the issue of the UN agency’s ties to the tobacco industry, in a bid to end years of acrimonious debate on the issue. The ILO has long been under fire for partnerships with several of the world’s biggest tobacco companies on charitable programmes in a range of countries, which expired last year. The agency had justified its ties to the tobacco companies as a way of helping improve the working conditions of some 60 million people involved in tobacco growing and production worldwide. But it faced criticism that the partnerships risked jeopardising global efforts to regulate tobacco use and reduce the negative health impacts of smoking. In the decade ending last year, the agency received more than $15 million from tobacco companies towards two “charitable partnerships” aimed at reducing child labour in tobacco fields in four African countries. But health and anti-tobacco advocates have been clamouring for the agency to join other UN agencies — most notably the World Health Organisation — in flatly refusing to engage with the industry. In November 2018, ILO decided it would not renew the tobacco company funding for the expiring programmes, but said it was looking into financing alternatives to ensure continued support to the communities in question. On Thursday, the agency said its Governing Body had endorsed an “integrated strategy to address decent work deficits in the tobacco sector”, with a particular focus on the four countries where the programmes had been based. It approved a vast three-year programme aimed at, among other things, assessing the working conditions in the sector, assisting countries in revising legislation and more effectively monitoring for child labour. ILO said the programme would cost a total of $1.67m per country, and that it should be financed by “voluntary contributions” from a range of sources, with some support from the ILO itself, if needed. But it acknowledged that it had not yet received any concrete donor pledges. The decision, adopted by consensus, meanwhile did not explicitly preclude future ties with the tobacco industry, and interpretations varied greatly on what the decision actually entailed. Corporate Accountability, a US-based civil society group, for instance celebrated the move, saying it “closes the tobacco industry’s last avenue of influence in the UN system”. Nicholas McCoy, in charge of advocacy partnerships at ECLT, one of the expired charitable programmes funded by the likes of British-American Tobacco and Philip Morris International, meanwhile said that “language was not added to specifically halt” future tobacco funding. “This leaves the door open,” he said. Published in Dawn, November 2nd, 2019 Email Your Name * Recipient Email * Cancel 0 Read more Anti-Kremlin fighters launch cross-border attacks into Russia Indian troops begin Maldives pullout after quit order Pirates seize BD ship off Somali coast Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ On DawnNews ‘زخم اور ہڈی ٹوٹی ہوتی تو بریانی کیسے بناتا؟’، انور مقصود کی افواہوں کی تردید تقسیم کرو اور حکومت کرو، کیا یہ پالیسی اب بھی جاری رہے گی؟ عروج و زوال سے بھری پاکستان کی صدارتی تاریخ Dawn News English Russia Accuses US Of Trying To Meddle In Presidential Election IMF Program: Former Federal Minister Muhammad Zubair’s Important Statement Why Are German Lawyers Suing Their Lawmakers? Is A Pier More Important Than Ceasefire? PM Shehbaz Sharif’s 19-Member Cabinet: Who Got Which Ministry? Explained: Israel, Brazil Ties Should PIA Be Privatised? Week’s Must-Know Headlines: Pope Francis Urges Ukraine To Pursue Negotiations With Russia For Peace Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon. GENEVA: The UN labour organisation has agreed not to renew controversial funding from tobacco companies for charitable programmes, but has left the door open to cooperating with the industry on future projects. The International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) governing body finally reached a compromise on Thursday night on the issue of the UN agency’s ties to the tobacco industry, in a bid to end years of acrimonious debate on the issue. The ILO has long been under fire for partnerships with several of the world’s biggest tobacco companies on charitable programmes in a range of countries, which expired last year. The agency had justified its ties to the tobacco companies as a way of helping improve the working conditions of some 60 million people involved in tobacco growing and production worldwide. But it faced criticism that the partnerships risked jeopardising global efforts to regulate tobacco use and reduce the negative health impacts of smoking. In the decade ending last year, the agency received more than $15 million from tobacco companies towards two “charitable partnerships” aimed at reducing child labour in tobacco fields in four African countries. But health and anti-tobacco advocates have been clamouring for the agency to join other UN agencies — most notably the World Health Organisation — in flatly refusing to engage with the industry. In November 2018, ILO decided it would not renew the tobacco company funding for the expiring programmes, but said it was looking into financing alternatives to ensure continued support to the communities in question. On Thursday, the agency said its Governing Body had endorsed an “integrated strategy to address decent work deficits in the tobacco sector”, with a particular focus on the four countries where the programmes had been based. It approved a vast three-year programme aimed at, among other things, assessing the working conditions in the sector, assisting countries in revising legislation and more effectively monitoring for child labour. ILO said the programme would cost a total of $1.67m per country, and that it should be financed by “voluntary contributions” from a range of sources, with some support from the ILO itself, if needed. But it acknowledged that it had not yet received any concrete donor pledges. The decision, adopted by consensus, meanwhile did not explicitly preclude future ties with the tobacco industry, and interpretations varied greatly on what the decision actually entailed. Corporate Accountability, a US-based civil society group, for instance celebrated the move, saying it “closes the tobacco industry’s last avenue of influence in the UN system”. Nicholas McCoy, in charge of advocacy partnerships at ECLT, one of the expired charitable programmes funded by the likes of British-American Tobacco and Philip Morris International, meanwhile said that “language was not added to specifically halt” future tobacco funding. “This leaves the door open,” he said. Published in Dawn, November 2nd, 2019 Anti-Kremlin fighters launch cross-border attacks into Russia Indian troops begin Maldives pullout after quit order Pirates seize BD ship off Somali coast Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ ‘زخم اور ہڈی ٹوٹی ہوتی تو بریانی کیسے بناتا؟’، انور مقصود کی افواہوں کی تردید تقسیم کرو اور حکومت کرو، کیا یہ پالیسی اب بھی جاری رہے گی؟ عروج و زوال سے بھری پاکستان کی صدارتی تاریخ Russia Accuses US Of Trying To Meddle In Presidential Election IMF Program: Former Federal Minister Muhammad Zubair’s Important Statement Why Are German Lawyers Suing Their Lawmakers? Is A Pier More Important Than Ceasefire? PM Shehbaz Sharif’s 19-Member Cabinet: Who Got Which Ministry? Explained: Israel, Brazil Ties Should PIA Be Privatised? Week’s Must-Know Headlines: Pope Francis Urges Ukraine To Pursue Negotiations With Russia For Peace Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon. Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon. Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ Sponsored Fatima Fertilizer and Atif Aslam join hands for a soulful rendition of ‘Allah Hu’ IMF team arriving in Pakistan for bailout review: report India’s Pant says doctors considered leg amputation after car crash PIA pilots advised not to fly while fasting Maryam forms three-member body to monitor development initiatives Call for deepening trade ties with US No relief for consumers as retailers defy govt Recipes to up your iftar game this Ramazan Sneaker culture is taking off in Pakistan — but there’s more to being a sneakerhead than having really cool kicks Delete, not block: Bushra Ansari’s guide to dealing with loved ones who ghost you Ishaq Dar becomes FM as PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet sworn in SC asks how ownership of Margalla land given to military New blood joins old guard in federal cabinet India conducts first flight test of MIRV domestic missile India moves before election to implement citizenship law opposed by Muslims Won’t tolerate intimidation of press, says CJP Is Aseefa Bhutto-Zardari going to be the first lady? Here’s everything we know so far Cartoon: 12 March, 2024 Finance czar commits to continuing caretakers’ policies Editorial: It is encouraging to see the PTI maturing politically, but it must do more The PTI is welcome as a disruptive force in the political landscape as long as it doesn't become a destructive one. The more things change in Pakistan’s politics, the more they remain the same Sneaker culture is taking off in Pakistan — but there’s more to being a sneakerhead than having really cool kicks Syed Hassan Rizwan No place for medics Rafia Zakaria All you need to know about the new faces in PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet Dawn.com No place for medics Rafia Zakaria While most in the health profession in Pakistan do not die on the job, their state is precarious in other ways. Updated 13 Mar, 2024 Of old and new faces Zahid Hussain 13 Mar, 2024 Blighted Britain Mahir Ali 13 Mar, 2024 Women in Punjab Luay Shabaneh Updated 12 Mar, 2024 Caretaker by any other name Arifa Noor Updated 13 Mar, 2024 Political faults CONSTRUCTIVE politics goes beyond mere agitation and protest. Unfortunately, over the past decade or so, all of... 13 Mar, 2024 Exclusionary law ANY illusions that India remains a secular state that treats all its people equally should be put to rest,... 13 Mar, 2024 Online darkness THE digital age is not without a grave demerit — a child’s screen-time has replaced much of regular life. This... Updated 12 Mar, 2024 PDM redux The new government would be well-advised to keep itself lean and focus on dealing with Pakistan’s many crises. 12 Mar, 2024 Amnesty plan AS the new political set-up prepares its agenda, the recently elected Balochistan chief minister has spoken about ... 12 Mar, 2024 Crushing protests PUNJAB has a new government, with a new chief minister at the helm. And yet, the same old tactics are being employed... Tribunal upholds ruling against P&G Ishaq Dar becomes FM as PM Shehbaz’s 19-member cabinet sworn in