 Stock of the Week: Coca-Cola With 1.9 billion servings of Coke enjoyed every day, our Stock of the Week Coca-Cola needs little introduction. But what's the investment case for the beverage behemoth? Always Coca-Cola Coke's ESG Credentials To view this article, become a Morningstar Basic member. See All Our Stock of the Week Posts About Author Get 14 Days Free Beverage company Coca-Cola ( KO ) needs little introduction. The infamous soft drink was first created in 1886 when John Pemberton, a pharmacist from Atlanta, decided to whip up a caramel-coloured liquid with some carbonated water and sell it for 5 cents a glass. The drink was soon trademarked and its popularity has only grown. This week our Twitter followers have voted it Stock of the Week from a choice of four US dividend-paying stocks. The US stock market is not known for its dividend-paying credentials – in fact, the average yield on the S&P 500 is around 1.5%. But Coca-cola yields an attractive 3.11% and is also rated as four stars by Morningstar analysts, indicating that at its current price of $53, it is trading below its fair value estimate of $55. Always Coca-Cola The world-famous brand name earns the company a Wide Economic Moat and Morningstar analyst Nicholas Johnson says: “Coca-Cola’s ubiquity and brand resonance has been going strong for over 130 years, and we see structural dynamics that will ensure this persists.” Back in 1886, Pemberton sold nine Coca-cola drinks a day. Now the company estimates that 1.9 billion servings of Coke are drunk in more than 200 countries every day . And let’s not forget, the company also owns other successful brands including Sprite, Fanta, Schweppes and Costa Coffee. As consumers have become more health-conscious in recent years, Coke has explored growing parts of the soft drink market such as premium water and energy drinks – it owns brands including Powerade, Smart water and Innocent smoothies. The firm has also successfully tapped into new regions and Morningstar analysts estimate it gets around 40% of its revenues from developing and emerging markets, where young demographics and a growing middle-class mean more people are looking to buy premium Western brands. Coca-Cola was not immune from last year’s Covid-19 difficulties though, and reported in February that full year revenues were down 11% to $33 billion. It added, however, that while there were still uncertainties relating to the pandemic, “the company has greater visibility into its future recovery and is confident its actions will continue to mitigate the effects of the crisis”. Coke's ESG Credentials Sustainably-minded investors might be wondering about the ESG credentials of a company whose key product is delivered in plastic bottles. Coke’s “World Without Waste” strategy focuses on creating a so-called circular economy for its packaging material and it has set a goal to reduce virgin PET plastic usage by 3 million metric tons by 2025. Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company , rates Coca-Cola as having a medium risk rating of 25.3 and ranks it as an outperformer in corporate governance. For comparison, rival Pepsico is given a low ESG risk rating of 17.7, and Monster Beverage Corp scores 28.6. Sustainalytics points out that concerns around obesity and diabetes are a risk for the business, with a growing number of countries considering the introduction of a sugar tax. Sustainalytics adds: “Beyond the health concerns related to its products, Coca-Cola is also in the spotlight as a significant contributor to the global plastic waste crisis.” The ESG report also points to Coke’s “inherently water-intensive operations” and potential supply chain issues as it sources raw materials, such as sugar, that are “at systemic risk of forced and child labour”. How have investors in the stock fared? In the March 2020 sell-off, Coke’s shares fell from $60 to $38, but they finished the year up 2% overall. Investors have enjoyed annualised returns of 9.17% over three years and 6.9% over the past 10 years. Coke is almost three times the size of its next-largest competitor and undoubtedly enjoys the benefits of scale. Its ad budget is unparalleled, says Morningstar’s Johnson, which helps it maintain brand awareness, and digitisation initiatives should ensure that continues. “Ultimately, Coke’s overarching goal is to put drinks in more hands in more places more quickly than any competitor,” says Johnson. “We believe this pithy synopsis represents the crux of the firm’s competitive positioning, underpinned by its cost advantage and intangible assets.” Beverage company Coca-Cola ( KO ) needs little introduction. The infamous soft drink was first created in 1886 when John Pemberton, a pharmacist from Atlanta, decided to whip up a caramel-coloured liquid with some carbonated water and sell it for 5 cents a glass. The drink was soon trademarked and its popularity has only grown. This week our Twitter followers have voted it Stock of the Week from a choice of four US dividend-paying stocks. The US stock market is not known for its dividend-paying credentials – in fact, the average yield on the S&P 500 is around 1.5%. But Coca-cola yields an attractive 3.11% and is also rated as four stars by Morningstar analysts, indicating that at its current price of $53, it is trading below its fair value estimate of $55. The world-famous brand name earns the company a Wide Economic Moat and Morningstar analyst Nicholas Johnson says: “Coca-Cola’s ubiquity and brand resonance has been going strong for over 130 years, and we see structural dynamics that will ensure this persists.” Back in 1886, Pemberton sold nine Coca-cola drinks a day. Now the company estimates that 1.9 billion servings of Coke are drunk in more than 200 countries every day . And let’s not forget, the company also owns other successful brands including Sprite, Fanta, Schweppes and Costa Coffee. As consumers have become more health-conscious in recent years, Coke has explored growing parts of the soft drink market such as premium water and energy drinks – it owns brands including Powerade, Smart water and Innocent smoothies. The firm has also successfully tapped into new regions and Morningstar analysts estimate it gets around 40% of its revenues from developing and emerging markets, where young demographics and a growing middle-class mean more people are looking to buy premium Western brands. Coca-Cola was not immune from last year’s Covid-19 difficulties though, and reported in February that full year revenues were down 11% to $33 billion. It added, however, that while there were still uncertainties relating to the pandemic, “the company has greater visibility into its future recovery and is confident its actions will continue to mitigate the effects of the crisis”. Sustainably-minded investors might be wondering about the ESG credentials of a company whose key product is delivered in plastic bottles. Coke’s “World Without Waste” strategy focuses on creating a so-called circular economy for its packaging material and it has set a goal to reduce virgin PET plastic usage by 3 million metric tons by 2025. Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company , rates Coca-Cola as having a medium risk rating of 25.3 and ranks it as an outperformer in corporate governance. For comparison, rival Pepsico is given a low ESG risk rating of 17.7, and Monster Beverage Corp scores 28.6. Sustainalytics points out that concerns around obesity and diabetes are a risk for the business, with a growing number of countries considering the introduction of a sugar tax. Sustainalytics adds: “Beyond the health concerns related to its products, Coca-Cola is also in the spotlight as a significant contributor to the global plastic waste crisis.” The ESG report also points to Coke’s “inherently water-intensive operations” and potential supply chain issues as it sources raw materials, such as sugar, that are “at systemic risk of forced and child labour”. How have investors in the stock fared? In the March 2020 sell-off, Coke’s shares fell from $60 to $38, but they finished the year up 2% overall. Investors have enjoyed annualised returns of 9.17% over three years and 6.9% over the past 10 years. Coke is almost three times the size of its next-largest competitor and undoubtedly enjoys the benefits of scale. Its ad budget is unparalleled, says Morningstar’s Johnson, which helps it maintain brand awareness, and digitisation initiatives should ensure that continues. “Ultimately, Coke’s overarching goal is to put drinks in more hands in more places more quickly than any competitor,” says Johnson. “We believe this pithy synopsis represents the crux of the firm’s competitive positioning, underpinned by its cost advantage and intangible assets.” Catch up Now The information contained within is for educational and informational purposes ONLY. It is not intended nor should it be considered an invitation or inducement to buy or sell a security or securities noted within nor should it be viewed as a communication intended to persuade or incite you to buy or sell security or securities noted within. Any commentary provided is the opinion of the author and should not be considered a personalised recommendation. The information contained within should not be a person's sole basis for making an investment decision. Please contact your financial professional before making an investment decision. UPDATED for March 2023: ISA season is upon us, which leads to some searching questions for inv... UPDATED for March 2023: ISA season is upon us, which leads to some searching questions for inv... Growth and value investments are often pitted against each other, but investors don't have to ... Growth and value investments are often pitted against each other, but investors don't have to ... How do companies come to the stock market? Our timeline explains how events unfold in the lead... How do companies come to the stock market? Our timeline explains how events unfold in the lead... In this series, we ask leading fund managers about everything from their investment strategy, to ... Rheinmetall and Unipol Gruppo are among February 2024's high-yielding winners Mining companies are operating in a challenging environment but could now be the time to top up o... THE WEEK: Morningstar columnist Rodney Hobson provides two pieces of advice to George Osborne, an... Businesses that have competitive advantages within their industry are good candidates for dividen... Morningstar reveals the top 10 best performers over the last five years Morningstar OBSR reveals the top funds for investors seeking exposure to European equities The ONS found that UK GDP grew 0.2% in January, improving the chances that the UK has already exi... Morningstar's chief economist expects improvement in inflation, in conjunction with softening eco... The buzzy social media platform is targeting a $6.4 billion (£5 billion) valuation, but its 19 ye... Investors see a solid set of results, and vote with their feet to boost the UK-listed constructio... In this series, we ask leading fund managers about everything from their investment strategy, to ... Holly Black is Senior Editor, Morningstar.co.uk About Us Connect With Us Get Help Terms of Use Privacy Policy Modern Slavery Statement Cookie Settings Disclosures The Morningstar Star Rating for Stocks is assigned based on an analyst's estimate of a stocks fair value. It is projection/opinion and not a statement of fact. Morningstar assigns star ratings based on an analyst’s estimate of a stock's fair value. Four components drive the Star Rating: (1) our assessment of the firm’s economic moat, (2) our estimate of the stock’s fair value, (3) our uncertainty around that fair value estimate and (4) the current market price. This process culminates in a single-point star rating that is updated daily. A 5-star represents a belief that the stock is a good value at its current price; a 1-star stock isn't. If our base-case assumptions are true the market price will converge on our fair value estimate over time, generally within three years. Investments in securities are subject to market and other risks. Past performance of a security may or may not be sustained in future and is no indication of future performance. For detail information about the Morningstar Star Rating for Stocks, please visit here Quantitative Fair Value Estimate represents Morningstar’s estimate of the per share dollar amount that a company’s equity is worth today. The Quantitative Fair Value Estimate is based on a statistical model derived from the Fair Value Estimate Morningstar’s equity analysts assign to companies which includes a financial forecast of the company. The Quantitative Fair Value Estimate is calculated daily. It is a projection/opinion and not a statement of fact. Investments in securities are subject to market and other risks. Past performance of a security may or may not be sustained in future and is no indication of future performance. For detail information about the Quantiative Fair Value Estimate, please visit here The Morningstar Medalist Rating is the summary expression of Morningstar’s forward-looking analysis of investment strategies as offered via specific vehicles using a rating scale of Gold, Silver, Bronze, Neutral, and Negative. The Medalist Ratings indicate which investments Morningstar believes are likely to outperform a relevant index or peer group average on a risk-adjusted basis over time. Investment products are evaluated on three key pillars (People, Parent, and Process) which, when coupled with a fee assessment, forms the basis for Morningstar’s conviction in those products’ investment merits and determines the Medalist Rating they’re assigned. Pillar ratings take the form of Low, Below Average, Average, Above Average, and High. Pillars may be evaluated via an analyst’s qualitative assessment (either directly to a vehicle the analyst covers or indirectly when the pillar ratings of a covered vehicle are mapped to a related uncovered vehicle) or using algorithmic techniques. Vehicles are sorted by their expected performance into rating groups defined by their Morningstar Category and their active or passive status. When analysts directly cover a vehicle, they assign the three pillar ratings based on their qualitative assessment, subject to the oversight of the Analyst Rating Committee, and monitor and reevaluate them at least every 14 months. When the vehicles are covered either indirectly by analysts or by algorithm, the ratings are assigned monthly. For more detailed information about these ratings, including their methodology, please go to here The Morningstar Medalist Ratings are not statements of fact, nor are they credit or risk ratings. The Morningstar Medalist Rating (i) should not be used as the sole basis in evaluating an investment product, (ii) involves unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause expectations not to occur or to differ significantly from what was expected, (iii) are not guaranteed to be based on complete or accurate assumptions or models when determined algorithmically, (iv) involve the risk that the return target will not be met due to such things as unforeseen changes in changes in management, technology, economic development, interest rate development, operating and/or material costs, competitive pressure, supervisory law, exchange rate, tax rates, exchange rate changes, and/or changes in political and social conditions, and (v) should not be considered an offer or solicitation to buy or sell the investment product. A change in the fundamental factors underlying the Morningstar Medalist Rating can mean that the rating is subsequently no longer accurate. For information on the historical Morningstar Medalist Rating for any managed investment Morningstar covers, please contact your local Morningstar office. For more detailed information about conflicts of interest, including EU MAR disclosures, please see the “Morningstar Medalist Rating Analyst Conflict of Interest & Other Disclosures for EMEA” here