 The 2023 State of Corporate ESG: How companies are embracing ESG for resilience and growth Businesses accelerating ESG strategies Moving beyond ESG reporting On the horizon You can download a full copy of “The 2023 State of Corporate ESG” survey report by filling out the form below: Gated Form Solutions Thomson Reuters ESG Solutions Featured event The 31st Annual Marketing Partner Forum Related posts C-Suite executives share ESG best practices on how to communicate well in a polarized environment Role of internal audit in ESG heats up amid global wave of regulation Emergence of impact accounting: The journey to apply monetary values to environmental, social & human capital More insights Canadian law firms & government lawyers faring well, but still facing challenges, 2 new reports show Tech-aided prevention efforts can best fight business-to-business fraud, says new benchmarking report Beyond the War for Talent: ALSPs & the maturation of the remote legal team Governance The 2023 State of Corporate ESG: How companies are embracing ESG for resilience and growth Serena Dibra Associate Product Marketing Manager / Risk & Fraud / Thomson Reuters 7 Nov 2023 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Serena Dibra Associate Product Marketing Manager / Risk & Fraud / Thomson Reuters 7 Nov 2023 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email A new report looks at companies' need to address ESG risks and obligations, which has become even more essential for business sustainability This year there has been a profound shift towards a new reality marked by increased unpredictability. The global landscape has been shaped by a series of impactful events, including the continuing challenges posed by the waning pandemic, Russia’s war in Ukraine, the recently inflamed Israeli – Palestinian conflict, ever-evolving economic sanctions and regulations, and extreme climate-related occurrences. These developments have had societal repercussions across numerous domains including supply chains, trade, workforce, security, and more. Addressing environmental, social & governance (ESG) risks is becoming increasingly essential for businesses to foster resilience and ensure long-term sustainability. To better understand how businesses are exploring ESG initiatives, the Thomson Reuters Institute has published The 2023 State of Corporate ESG , a report based on qualitative interviews and surveys conducted with C-Suite and functional leaders across a variety of roles, industries, and geographies. Businesses accelerating ESG strategies The report indicates that businesses are accelerating their proactive measures and are seeking to invest and integrate third-party solutions that, in part, help businesses stay abreast of international regulatory requirements and keep up to date with ESG global news. Mitigating supply chain risks and learning more about vendors’ and suppliers’ information have also been a critical highlight in the report in which data management and analysis play a key role. Indeed, concerns around gaps in data collection along with transparency from vendors were top concerns for businesses as they prepare for reporting mandates, according to respondents to the survey. The report also discusses forthcoming opportunities, one of which revolves around artificial intelligence (AI) and how it can connect disparate data and yield better ESG analysis and insights, in particular for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions tracking. AI can be leveraged to automate the reporting of emissions data including Scope 3 carbon accounting, ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and sustainability reporting standards, reducing the administrative burden of managing emissions data. Another use case in which AI has the potential to improve processes is by parsing through ESG reports and offering suggestions for possible actions. This scalable effort greatly expedites the analysis process and promotes faster decision-making. Moving beyond ESG reporting ESG commitments, however, are not solely driven by reporting, but are now closely intertwined with the business’s financial performance and long-term financial success, including mitigating economic risks and seizing investment opportunities. Supply chain disruptions can cost companies between 6% and 20% in revenue loss, according to recent research by IBM . A notable instance of financial loss was the economic blow estimated between $4 billion and $8 billion that fell on Apple. The tech giant company announced earlier in the year its plan to de-risk its supply chains and implement a decentralized production plan, expanding 25% of its operation in India by 2025. Another example of financial risks for companies that do not adhere to ethical and responsible business practices are in response to human rights violations. South Korean automaker Hyundai Motors divested its subsidiary factory in Alabama following allegations of child labor concerns, according to Reuters . Notably in the U.S., there have been 117 sanctions imposed on companies accused of using forced labor practices involving Uyghurs populations, resulting in 2,325 shipments denied and 988 pending for a total value of $826 million, according to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Assessing new vendors’ financial health, their response to the climate crisis, and working conditions across various regions are part of risk-management strategies that companies should consider monitoring to mitigate financial risks, while at the same time ensuring compliance with ESG. With military conflicts and natural disasters leading to humanitarian crises, ESG is embraced as a contribution to the overall agenda of managing risks and improving business resilience. On the horizon Amid the challenges faced globally in 2023 and the complexity likely to continue in 2024, businesses are increasingly recognizing the imperative to build sustainable, resilient models. Thomson Reuters research indicates that 71% of C-Suite and functional leaders anticipate the growing significance of ESG in corporate performance. In fact, there are three pivotal factors shaping this evolution: AI advancements bridging the data gaps and analysis; evolving global regulations impacting diverse sectors; and maturing digital solutions providing fresh insights in the ESG realm. By embracing these elements, companies and their suppliers can transform ESG from a mere obligation into a catalyst for informed decision-making and financial growth. Successful ESG management is the key to thriving and prospering in this new era of more complexity and less certainty. You can download a full copy of “The 2023 State of Corporate ESG” survey report by filling out the form below: Gated Form Name (Required) First Last Job title (Required) Company (Required) Email (Required) Country or Province (Required) Select Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Côte d'Ivoire Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini (Swaziland) Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu US Minor Outlying Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Organization Type Select Organization Type Corporation or Business ($0-$500M annual revenue) Corporation or Business ($500M+ annual revenue) Financial institution Government – Federal Government – State & Local Law Firm (1-6 attorneys) Law Firm (7-10 attorneys) Law Firm (11-29 attorneys) Law Firm (30 or more attorneys) Law School Faculty Law Students Zip or Postal Code Check here to receive emails about Thomson Reuters products, news, or services that may interest you. CAPTCHA Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Compliance & Risk Corporate Reports Corporates ESG Governance State of Corporate ESG Report Serena Dibra Associate Product Marketing Manager / Risk & Fraud / Thomson Reuters 7 Nov 2023 · 5 minute read Serena Dibra Associate Product Marketing Manager / Risk & Fraud / Thomson Reuters 7 Nov 2023 · 5 minute read A new report looks at companies' need to address ESG risks and obligations, which has become even more essential for business sustainability This year there has been a profound shift towards a new reality marked by increased unpredictability. The global landscape has been shaped by a series of impactful events, including the continuing challenges posed by the waning pandemic, Russia’s war in Ukraine, the recently inflamed Israeli – Palestinian conflict, ever-evolving economic sanctions and regulations, and extreme climate-related occurrences. These developments have had societal repercussions across numerous domains including supply chains, trade, workforce, security, and more. Addressing environmental, social & governance (ESG) risks is becoming increasingly essential for businesses to foster resilience and ensure long-term sustainability. To better understand how businesses are exploring ESG initiatives, the Thomson Reuters Institute has published The 2023 State of Corporate ESG , a report based on qualitative interviews and surveys conducted with C-Suite and functional leaders across a variety of roles, industries, and geographies. The report indicates that businesses are accelerating their proactive measures and are seeking to invest and integrate third-party solutions that, in part, help businesses stay abreast of international regulatory requirements and keep up to date with ESG global news. Mitigating supply chain risks and learning more about vendors’ and suppliers’ information have also been a critical highlight in the report in which data management and analysis play a key role. Indeed, concerns around gaps in data collection along with transparency from vendors were top concerns for businesses as they prepare for reporting mandates, according to respondents to the survey. The report also discusses forthcoming opportunities, one of which revolves around artificial intelligence (AI) and how it can connect disparate data and yield better ESG analysis and insights, in particular for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions tracking. AI can be leveraged to automate the reporting of emissions data including Scope 3 carbon accounting, ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and sustainability reporting standards, reducing the administrative burden of managing emissions data. Another use case in which AI has the potential to improve processes is by parsing through ESG reports and offering suggestions for possible actions. This scalable effort greatly expedites the analysis process and promotes faster decision-making. ESG commitments, however, are not solely driven by reporting, but are now closely intertwined with the business’s financial performance and long-term financial success, including mitigating economic risks and seizing investment opportunities. Supply chain disruptions can cost companies between 6% and 20% in revenue loss, according to recent research by IBM . A notable instance of financial loss was the economic blow estimated between $4 billion and $8 billion that fell on Apple. The tech giant company announced earlier in the year its plan to de-risk its supply chains and implement a decentralized production plan, expanding 25% of its operation in India by 2025. Another example of financial risks for companies that do not adhere to ethical and responsible business practices are in response to human rights violations. South Korean automaker Hyundai Motors divested its subsidiary factory in Alabama following allegations of child labor concerns, according to Reuters . Notably in the U.S., there have been 117 sanctions imposed on companies accused of using forced labor practices involving Uyghurs populations, resulting in 2,325 shipments denied and 988 pending for a total value of $826 million, according to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Assessing new vendors’ financial health, their response to the climate crisis, and working conditions across various regions are part of risk-management strategies that companies should consider monitoring to mitigate financial risks, while at the same time ensuring compliance with ESG. With military conflicts and natural disasters leading to humanitarian crises, ESG is embraced as a contribution to the overall agenda of managing risks and improving business resilience. Amid the challenges faced globally in 2023 and the complexity likely to continue in 2024, businesses are increasingly recognizing the imperative to build sustainable, resilient models. Thomson Reuters research indicates that 71% of C-Suite and functional leaders anticipate the growing significance of ESG in corporate performance. In fact, there are three pivotal factors shaping this evolution: By embracing these elements, companies and their suppliers can transform ESG from a mere obligation into a catalyst for informed decision-making and financial growth. Successful ESG management is the key to thriving and prospering in this new era of more complexity and less certainty. Thomson Reuters ESG Solutions Trusted ESG resources that lead to better business decisions and expert tools to navigate environmental, social, and governance challenges. Trusted ESG resources that lead to better business decisions and expert tools to navigate environmental, social, and governance challenges. Trusted ESG resources that lead to better business decisions and expert tools to navigate environmental, social, and governance challenges. Jan 17 - 19, 2024 The 31st Annual Marketing Partner Forum In January 2024, the Thomson Reuters Institute proudly presented the 31st Annual Marketing Partner Forum at The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island … Jan 17 - 19, 2024 In January 2024, the Thomson Reuters Institute proudly presented the 31st Annual Marketing Partner Forum at The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island … C-Suite executives share ESG best practices on how to communicate well in a polarized environment 12 Mar 2024 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 12 Mar 2024 · 5 minute read Role of internal audit in ESG heats up amid global wave of regulation 28 Feb 2024 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 28 Feb 2024 · 5 minute read Emergence of impact accounting: The journey to apply monetary values to environmental, social & human capital 26 Feb 2024 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 26 Feb 2024 · 5 minute read Canadian law firms & government lawyers faring well, but still facing challenges, 2 new reports show 6 Mar 2024 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 6 Mar 2024 · 5 minute read Tech-aided prevention efforts can best fight business-to-business fraud, says new benchmarking report 30 Jun 2023 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 30 Jun 2023 · 5 minute read Beyond the War for Talent: ALSPs & the maturation of the remote legal team 27 Mar 2023 · 5 minute read Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 27 Mar 2023 · 5 minute read