 New agribusiness backed digital tool designed to simplify sustainability measurement and reporting Industry-wide challenge Birth of an idea ​ Sustainability performance ​ Data sharing and ownership ​ Related news Follow us Products Webinars Headlines FoodNavigator Resources Or wait... New agribusiness backed digital tool designed to simplify sustainability measurement and reporting By Jane Byrne 06-Oct-2023 - Last updated on 10-Feb-2024 at 11:21 GMT Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email to a friend © GettyImages/magnetcreative Related tags Sustainability transparency Adm EUDR forced labor Soy Palm oil Corn Agricultural and food production systems face increasing sustainability challenges and are under growing legislative and public pressure. A new digital platform – TRACT – has been launched to boost transparency in feed and food supply chains - from growers to retailers. Those behind the new tool, which has been evaluated by an initial set of external users, say it enables users to compare metrics and methodologies across multiple product categories all in one place for the first time. Agribusiness giants - Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM), Cargill, Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC) and Olam – provided the initial funding and talent for TRACT and collaborated with other companies and non-profit organizations to develop the platform. TRACT is now officially established as an independent company, with a leadership team consisting of executives from within the food and agriculture sectors. In the launch phase, the platform is focused on end-to-end traceability of coffee and palm supply chains. Shortly afterwards, it will include sustainability insights related to carbon emissions and initial EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) ​ ​ reporting functionality to enable users to start their journey to EUDR compliance. The platform will then expand to allow for metrics on deforestation ​ ​, child labor risk, forced labor risk and living income along with new product categories including soy ​ ​, corn, cocoa, and cotton. Those new product categories will be added in 2024. The objective is to have more than six categories on the platform in 2024 and more than 12 in 2025, according to Tom Oldfield, TRACT’s CSO. Industry-wide challenge “TRACT is unique as we not only align methodologies but also build them into a platform – enabling a common method for measuring, aggregating, and comparing data – across supply chains and more than one product category. This is new and we believe it will be transformative for the sector. “And it is the first time that the industry has come together – a pre-competitive collaboration - to develop an impactful solution for this industry-wide issue,” he told FeedNavigator. Typical users of this platform would be sustainability specialists, controllers, general management, procurement managers at companies that are stakeholders within food and ag supply chains like suppliers of ag commodities and food ingredients, consumer packaged goods companies, food service companies, retailers. Birth of an idea ​ The trigger for the development of the platform was the confirmation from a group of suppliers and buyers of agricultural commodities and food ingredients that such a tool was desperately needed, reported Oldfield. “They saw that pre-competitively collaborating on how to measure sustainability performance would bring the industry forward. Olam initially convened a group of 12 leading companies (including the four investor companies but also including big consumer brands) who were willing and able to work on this together.” Buyers and suppliers of food and agricultural commodities, products, and ingredients from over 20 companies have been involved in some way in the development of TRACT. Company names are not being disclosed for now, said the CSO. “We also have an eco-system of more than 10 other stakeholder organizations, including non-profits, which have been involved in the creation of TRACT. We continue to meet with them and others to be part of the platform’s further development. Some of those involved so far include: Proforest ​ ​, AimProgress, Verité, and WRI.” Sustainability performance ​ TRACT applies comparable and aggregable methodologies so that sustainability measurement from multiple sources make sense and can be easily compared and reported, said the CSO. It consists of sustainability performance measurement data and insights linked to products supplied between actors in food and agriculture supply chains, with the tool built on a robust traceability model that links data to the particular parts of the food and ag supply chains, from plantations, farmer groups through to processing, mills, refineries and manufacturing, he explained. “The platform is designed as a one-stop-shop for sustainability measurement, so it brings together several platforms/tools, such as traceability, carbon footprinting, and remote monitoring tools to utilize data in a more simplified way. "By simplifying sustainability measurement and reporting, users will be able to focus more of their resources on impact delivery. A focus on improving sustainability performance would benefit multiple stakeholders.” Data sharing and ownership ​ The companies using the system own the data and decide what they want to upload and share, which could include third-party verified data, which would be flagged. “We will add a third-party verification for data uploaded on the platform. Users of the platform will be able to make use of this if they wish. TRACT will also have its own internal processes and calculators audited by a third party to ensure the methodologies are correct and data is protected,” confirmed Oldfield. 06-Oct-2023 - Last updated on 10-Feb-2024 at 11:21 GMT Related tags Sustainability transparency Adm EUDR forced labor Soy Palm oil Corn Those behind the new tool, which has been evaluated by an initial set of external users, say it enables users to compare metrics and methodologies across multiple product categories all in one place for the first time. Agribusiness giants - Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM), Cargill, Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC) and Olam – provided the initial funding and talent for TRACT and collaborated with other companies and non-profit organizations to develop the platform. TRACT is now officially established as an independent company, with a leadership team consisting of executives from within the food and agriculture sectors. In the launch phase, the platform is focused on end-to-end traceability of coffee and palm supply chains. Shortly afterwards, it will include sustainability insights related to carbon emissions and initial EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) ​ ​ reporting functionality to enable users to start their journey to EUDR compliance. The platform will then expand to allow for metrics on deforestation ​ ​, child labor risk, forced labor risk and living income along with new product categories including soy ​ ​, corn, cocoa, and cotton. Those new product categories will be added in 2024. The objective is to have more than six categories on the platform in 2024 and more than 12 in 2025, according to Tom Oldfield, TRACT’s CSO. “TRACT is unique as we not only align methodologies but also build them into a platform – enabling a common method for measuring, aggregating, and comparing data – across supply chains and more than one product category. This is new and we believe it will be transformative for the sector. “And it is the first time that the industry has come together – a pre-competitive collaboration - to develop an impactful solution for this industry-wide issue,” he told FeedNavigator. Typical users of this platform would be sustainability specialists, controllers, general management, procurement managers at companies that are stakeholders within food and ag supply chains like suppliers of ag commodities and food ingredients, consumer packaged goods companies, food service companies, retailers. The trigger for the development of the platform was the confirmation from a group of suppliers and buyers of agricultural commodities and food ingredients that such a tool was desperately needed, reported Oldfield. “They saw that pre-competitively collaborating on how to measure sustainability performance would bring the industry forward. Olam initially convened a group of 12 leading companies (including the four investor companies but also including big consumer brands) who were willing and able to work on this together.” Buyers and suppliers of food and agricultural commodities, products, and ingredients from over 20 companies have been involved in some way in the development of TRACT. Company names are not being disclosed for now, said the CSO. “We also have an eco-system of more than 10 other stakeholder organizations, including non-profits, which have been involved in the creation of TRACT. We continue to meet with them and others to be part of the platform’s further development. Some of those involved so far include: Proforest ​ ​, AimProgress, Verité, and WRI.” TRACT applies comparable and aggregable methodologies so that sustainability measurement from multiple sources make sense and can be easily compared and reported, said the CSO. It consists of sustainability performance measurement data and insights linked to products supplied between actors in food and agriculture supply chains, with the tool built on a robust traceability model that links data to the particular parts of the food and ag supply chains, from plantations, farmer groups through to processing, mills, refineries and manufacturing, he explained. “The platform is designed as a one-stop-shop for sustainability measurement, so it brings together several platforms/tools, such as traceability, carbon footprinting, and remote monitoring tools to utilize data in a more simplified way. "By simplifying sustainability measurement and reporting, users will be able to focus more of their resources on impact delivery. A focus on improving sustainability performance would benefit multiple stakeholders.” The companies using the system own the data and decide what they want to upload and share, which could include third-party verified data, which would be flagged. “We will add a third-party verification for data uploaded on the platform. Users of the platform will be able to make use of this if they wish. TRACT will also have its own internal processes and calculators audited by a third party to ensure the methodologies are correct and data is protected,” confirmed Oldfield. Related news ‘CROP is designed for small spaces’: Crops can be grown indoors by new technology Global livestock sector in urgent need of standardised measurement system for GHG data Follow us Facebook Twitter Linkedin Products View more Take Control with Predictive Modeling from Corbion Corbion | Download
 Product Brochure Appealing sweetness from fruit, affordable & sustainable Symrise | Download
 Product Brochure Create sensational snacks with Sense Colour Givaudan | Access
 Sponsored Link Chicory root fibres for holistic health BENEO | Download
 Technical / White Paper Conquer 2024 challenges and thrive in the plant-based category Solina | Download
 Technical / White Paper Webinars Upcoming supplier webinars 27 Mar 2024 Wed Sweet Solutions: Exploring the Future of Sugar Reduction 11 Apr 2024 Thu Real-time Brix monitoring - the secret ingredient your process needs for quality and efficiency Vaisala Ltd On-demand webinars Free-From Webinar Food for Kids Webinar Personalised Nutrition: Tapping into data for healthier diets Webinar Food as Medicine Webinar Plant-based under the Microscope Webinar Reformulation & fortification: Changing trends in healthier foods Webinar Upcoming supplier webinars On-demand webinars Headlines Plant-based: Why some consumers make the switch and others steer clear ‘World’s first’ meat-free octopus tentacles mimic ‘intense colour and distinct suckers’ NPD Trend Tracker: From gut-friendly sweets and flapjacks to edible insects Gut health: Why this consumer trend is here to stay Is hemp the next functional food in vegetarian nutrition? The role of policy in a good food system Blood sugar control spikes interest across all health markets Novel Foods confusion leading to innovation graveyard, expert warns