 Child sweatshops power the AI industry About ReadWrite’s Editorial Process Radek Zielinski Tech Journalist Related News Pornhub says adios! to Texas Apple settles lawsuit over CEO China comments Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Stop! Step away from Minecraft. Do not update it by order of Mojang Most Popular Tech Stories Latest News Pornhub says adios! to Texas Apple settles lawsuit over CEO China comments Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Stop! Step away from Minecraft. Do not update it by order of Mojang Popular Topics Get the biggest tech headlines of the day delivered to your inbox Child sweatshops power the AI industry Radek Zielinski Radek Zielinski Tech Journalist Radek Zielinski is an experienced technology and financial journalist with a passion for cybersecurity and futurology. All Posts by Radek Zielinski Tech Journalist Tech Journalist Last updated: 17 November, 2023 Disclosure When you buy through affiliate links in our content, we may earn a commission at no extra cost to you. Learn how our funding model works . By using this website you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. Why Trust Us We uphold a strict editorial policy that focuses on factual accuracy, relevance, and impartiality. Our content, created by leading industry experts, is meticulously reviewed by a team of seasoned editors to ensure compliance with the highest standards in reporting and publishing. Email Facebook X Whatsapp LinkedIn Telegram Telegram Radek Zielinski is an experienced technology and financial journalist with a passion for cybersecurity and futurology. A disturbing Nov. 15 report has revealed that child labor is being used to train artificial intelligence systems by major tech companies. Children as young as 11 are working long hours labeling data and moderating content on crowdsourcing platforms like Toloka and Appen. These platforms connect gig workers to AI companies like Google , Amazon, Microsoft , Boeing and others. While the platforms require users to be 18, lax checks allow children to easily bypass age restrictions by using relatives’ IDs. Interviews with workers in Pakistan and Kenya uncovered that many joined these sites as minors. Some shared accounts with family members, taking shifts labeling data after school or when parents were occupied with chores. Researchers estimate the data labeling industry will grow to over $17 billion by 2030. But workers, predominantly in East Africa, Venezuela, Pakistan, India, and the Philippines, are paid just pennies per task. Teenagers are drawn by the prospect of earning a few dollars a day — exceeding local minimum wages — but the low pay and repetitive work amounts to “digital servitude,” according to critics. Children as young as 13 are exposed to disturbing content like hate speech, violent images and pornography while moderating platforms. Experts warn this can cause lasting psychological damage. “It’s digital slavery,” said one 18-year-old who joined at 15 in Pakistan. He continues working grueling overnight shifts, earning just $100 a month. The physical and legal distances between workers and Silicon Valley tech firms create little oversight of labor conditions. Whole workforces remain invisible, with children filling in on family accounts. “Their backs would hurt because they have been sitting for so long. So they would take a break, and then the kids would fill in,” explained one researcher. Some platforms like Kolotibablo openly advertise jobs to children for solving CAPTCHAs. Experts say this data helps train AI systems, including those owned by Google. The largely unregulated industry allows child labor to remain hidden. Photo by Tara Winstead . About ReadWrite’s Editorial Process The ReadWrite Editorial policy involves closely monitoring the tech industry for major developments, new product launches, AI breakthroughs, video game releases and other newsworthy events. Editors assign relevant stories to staff writers or freelance contributors with expertise in each particular topic area. Before publication, articles go through a rigorous round of editing for accuracy, clarity, and to ensure adherence to ReadWrite's style guidelines. tags AI Big Data News Radek Zielinski Tech Journalist Radek Zielinski is an experienced technology and financial journalist with a passion for cybersecurity and futurology. All Posts by Radek Zielinski Related News Pornhub says adios! to Texas Brian-Damien Morgan Apple settles lawsuit over CEO China comments Charlotte Colombo Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications Brian-Damien Morgan What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Ali Rees Stop! Step away from Minecraft. Do not update it by order of Mojang Paul McNally A disturbing Nov. 15 report has revealed that child labor is being used to train artificial intelligence systems by major tech companies. Children as young as 11 are working long hours labeling data and moderating content on crowdsourcing platforms like Toloka and Appen. These platforms connect gig workers to AI companies like Google , Amazon, Microsoft , Boeing and others. While the platforms require users to be 18, lax checks allow children to easily bypass age restrictions by using relatives’ IDs. Interviews with workers in Pakistan and Kenya uncovered that many joined these sites as minors. Some shared accounts with family members, taking shifts labeling data after school or when parents were occupied with chores. Researchers estimate the data labeling industry will grow to over $17 billion by 2030. But workers, predominantly in East Africa, Venezuela, Pakistan, India, and the Philippines, are paid just pennies per task. Teenagers are drawn by the prospect of earning a few dollars a day — exceeding local minimum wages — but the low pay and repetitive work amounts to “digital servitude,” according to critics. Children as young as 13 are exposed to disturbing content like hate speech, violent images and pornography while moderating platforms. Experts warn this can cause lasting psychological damage. “It’s digital slavery,” said one 18-year-old who joined at 15 in Pakistan. He continues working grueling overnight shifts, earning just $100 a month. The physical and legal distances between workers and Silicon Valley tech firms create little oversight of labor conditions. Whole workforces remain invisible, with children filling in on family accounts. “Their backs would hurt because they have been sitting for so long. So they would take a break, and then the kids would fill in,” explained one researcher. Some platforms like Kolotibablo openly advertise jobs to children for solving CAPTCHAs. Experts say this data helps train AI systems, including those owned by Google. The largely unregulated industry allows child labor to remain hidden. Photo by Tara Winstead . The ReadWrite Editorial policy involves closely monitoring the tech industry for major developments, new product launches, AI breakthroughs, video game releases and other newsworthy events. Editors assign relevant stories to staff writers or freelance contributors with expertise in each particular topic area. Before publication, articles go through a rigorous round of editing for accuracy, clarity, and to ensure adherence to ReadWrite's style guidelines. Radek Zielinski is an experienced technology and financial journalist with a passion for cybersecurity and futurology. Most Popular Tech Stories It’s-a-sale – Five Mario Day bargains to pick up this weekend on Nintendo Switch This AI realized it was being tested Apple reportedly testing AI-driven ad placements in App Store strategy EmuDeck adds new emulators – won’t remove Yuzu from your Steam Deck & ROG Ally All Fortnite Chapter 5 Season 2 Weekly Quests leaked Latest News Technology Pornhub says adios! to Texas Brian-Damien Morgan 8 hours Pornhub has decided to pack up and host its popular pornographic offerings away from the Lone Star State. The move comes from the sex-work site after being forced to restrict... Mobile Apple settles lawsuit over CEO China comments Charlotte Colombo 8 hours Gambling Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications Brian-Damien Morgan 9 hours Gaming What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Ali Rees 11 hours Gambling Kansas City Chiefs consider sports wagering implications Brian-Damien Morgan 9 hours Gaming What are the most popular Steam Deck games? Ali Rees 11 hours Gaming Stop! Step away from Minecraft. Do not update it by order of Mojang Paul McNally 11 hours Pornhub has decided to pack up and host its popular pornographic offerings away from the Lone Star State. The move comes from the sex-work site after being forced to restrict... Popular Topics AI AR / VR Cryptocurrency Gaming Smartphone Gambling Wearables Web By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy. Unsubscribe anytime. Explore the latest in tech with our Tech News. We cut through the noise for concise, relevant updates, keeping you informed about the rapidly evolving tech landscape with curated content that separates signal from noise. Explore tech impact in In-Depth Stories. Narrative data journalism offers comprehensive analyses, revealing stories behind data. Understand industry trends for a deeper perspective on tech's intricate relationships with society. Empower decisions with Expert Reviews, merging industry expertise and insightful analysis. Delve into tech intricacies, get the best deals, and stay ahead with our trustworthy guide to navigating the ever-changing tech market.