 Tue, Oct 24, 2023 page9 Exploiting child labor will not make America great again Most Popular Some to cut investment in China: study Beijing’s cross-strait policy ‘coercive’ Peace in Strait must be priority, William Lai says Ex-Japan officer advises alliance Taiwan, China join forces in fisher rescue You might also like John J. Tkacik, Jr. on Taiwan: The Kinmen coast guard mini-crisis National consciousness in Taiwan By Chen Chiao-chicy 陳喬琪 South Korea arms exports keep rising as Ukraine war goes on By Tim Culpan Military challenges faced by China By Lin Ying-yu 林穎佑 Why are US employers increasingly turning to illegal child labor? Amid what is arguably the strongest labor market ever, with the unemployment rate below 4 percent for the two years preceding and following the COVID-19 pandemic, the trend is a troubling sign of weakness. The rise in child exploitation is so sharp the US Department of Labor is struggling to keep up. Minors, some as young as 10, have reportedly been found working at McDonald’s franchises, cleaning slaughterhouses on overnight shifts and stamping metal for Hyundai cars. Some Republican politicians are portraying this as the natural result of a tight labor market. Instead of cracking down, they are pushing to relax labor laws to allow more children to work. It is a policy response to shortage to create new workers, they said. This logic is wrong, and its application abhorrent. The US is not short on people willing and able to work. Last year, the unemployment rate for those without a high-school diploma was 5.5 percent, well above the 3.7 percent rate for all workers. For those with a disability it was 7.6 percent. For black men with a felony conviction, it was much higher. (Although the government does not consistently track their unemployment rate, the available data suggest that it typically exceeds 50 percent.) US labor laws do not make hiring such legally authorized workers particularly burdensome. The federal minimum wage is just US$7.25 an hour. Employers are not required to offer paid sick days or holidays, let alone paid family leave. They are not even required to provide a work schedule in advance or a paystub after the fact, and they can fire employees at will. Nonetheless, employers are turning to children. This is a choice, not a labor market result. The children being put to work are not just regular teenagers looking to flip some burgers after school. They are frequently migrants with no parents in the US, pulled from the waves of unaccompanied minors fleeing violence and poverty in Central and South America. Their exploitation is enabled by poor enforcement: The labor department has been underfunded for decades, with just one investigator per 200,000 workers. I can see only two interpretations for such illegal opportunism: Either employers are deeply prejudiced against certain groups of workers, or they are dangerously addicted to extremely cheap labor — both weaknesses that threaten market efficiency and evolution. When a 13-year-old kid is put to work using hazardous chemicals to clean machines sharp enough to slaughter thousands of animals a day, that is not a sign of strength. It does not indicate a capability to develop human capital, or to evolve with new technologies or challenges. It is weakness of a kind that one of the world’s wealthiest nations should never accept. Kathryn Anne Edwards is a labor economist and independent policy consultant. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Last month, a mini-crisis erupted at Kinmen (金門), the Taipei-administered offshore island once popularly known in America as “Quemoy” that inconveniently is plumb in the middle of Xiamen (廈門) harbor. Mercifully unlike previous crises, this one seems not to have been a planned provocation by the Chinese central people’s government. Nor does either side, China or Taiwan, want the matter to escalate.
History suggests that Beijing still regards Kinmen and the other Taipei-administered “offshore islands” such as Matsu (馬祖), Tung-yin (東引) and Wu-ch’iu (烏坵) as important geographic strongholds which anchor Taiwan to the motherland. As a result, Beijing is not likely A few days ago, it was nice and sunny outside, so I went to take a walk in a park. There, I overheard an elementary-school student ask: What countries do you like besides Taiwan?
The child called Taiwan by its name and said it was a country, showing that consciousness of “Taiwan is a nation” has been internalized, which delights me.
There are a few other examples of this.
As of this year, 110 countries recognize the Taiwanese passport and allow entry without a visa. Twelve of these have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan — and welcome Taiwanese with open arms — while South Korea’s location — placing it under pressure from both North Korea and China — has driven it to assume a more powerful defense posture. Previously focused on cars and chips, the nation has also harnessed its manufacturing prowess to become the world’s ninth-largest weapons supplier. Seoul should press its case for becoming an even larger part of the international arms market, while ensuring it does not lose sight of its own tech expertise.
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is adding momentum to global demand, with neighbors bolstering their defenses as a counter to Moscow’s aggressive stance. That is helping South Korean Last week and over the week, China held its “two sessions” — the annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference. 
Although not many remarkable discussions about national defense were immediately evident, some points of interest have emerged from the information that has been officially released.
First, many of the documents reiterate the importance of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). This is often linked with China’s emphasis that the military must “follow the party, fight to win and forge exemplary conduct.”
Evidently, the longstanding slogan of “the party commands the gun” is