 Education and hope – how IHG and Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation are helping disadvantaged children in Vietnam Global hotel group’s charity partnership is supporting 10,000 disadvantaged young people across the country About Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation About IHG ® Your content on Hospitality Net? Press Release Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Education and hope – how IHG and Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation are helping disadvantaged children in Vietnam Global hotel group’s charity partnership is supporting 10,000 disadvantaged young people across the country IHG 1 November 2023 Source: IHG Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam – An estimated one in five children live in poverty in Vietnam, many of whom are forced to move from their villages to major cities such as Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. There, they live on the streets in an attempt to financially support their families, leaving them exposed to danger and violence. Since 2020, IHG Hotels & Resorts has partnered with Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation , a non-profit working to end human trafficking in Vietnam, to force change and offer shelter, support and hope to these homeless and innocent children. This year, IHG has strengthened this collaboration with an agreement to support 10,000 of these disadvantaged young people. The company will pledge funds to provide scholarships, educational assistance and textbooks for ethnic minority students, raise awareness about the risks of unsafe migration and child labour, and provide career orientation sessions to students in Dien Bien. This support, aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals of ‘No Poverty’, ‘Quality Education’ and ‘Reduced Inequality’, continues IHG’s great tradition in this area. For many years, its colleagues have volunteered and raised funds to provide street children and young adults with access to education and training, while two trainees from Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation are currently working in IHG hotels. It’s fantastic to support Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation in its quest for change across the country. Its team work tirelessly every day, including making nightly searches across the streets of Vietnam to locate and help young people in need. They provide them with shelter, education and crisis care, and I feel heartened that we are able to contribute and support their efforts. IHG is invested in this partnership and our colleagues are passionately supporting the cause, with every one of our 16 hotels in Vietnam helping the Foundation through a range of meaningful efforts and activities. These are aligned with the commitments of Journey To Tomorrow – IHG’s 10-year action plan to drive change for our people, communities and planet – and we will continue to support efforts to provide the younger generation with a better future as we deliver on our purpose of True Hospitality for Good. Paul Cunningham, Senior Director, Operations, South East Asia and Korea, IHG Hotels & Resorts IHG has been a wonderful organisational partner and a great supporter of Blue Dragon over the years. IHG have made a significant impact on the lives of many children and families through their many contributions and shows of kindness. As a grassroots charity, we believe that every single child deserves a chance at a great life and are striving to empower them through a broad range of experiences and opportunities. With partners like IHG, we have been able to work with thousands of children and families from all around Vietnam as we continue on our journey to help children in crisis. Do Duy Vi, co-CEO, Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation Source: IHG IHG supported the annual Blue Dragon Marathon Walk 2023 in September, joining hundreds of people around the world to raise funds for vulnerable communities in Vietnam, and raising over 60 million dong thanks to the efforts of its participants and contributors, including hotel guests. The IHG team participated for the third year running, through a coordinated effort across its properties in the country, including Crowne Plaza Phu Quoc Starbay, Regent Phu Quoc, InterContinental Phu Quoc Long Beach Resort, InterContinental Hanoi Landmark72, InterContinental Hanoi Westlake, InterContinental Nha Trang and Crowne Plaza Vinh Yen City Centre. Select IHG hotels in Vietnam are also displaying Blue Dragon products for sale, with all proceeds going to the Foundation. To support Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation, visit its website at https://www.bluedragon.org/ . About Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation aims to end the trafficking and exploitation of Vietnamese people. We rescue children from homelessness and the dangers of the streets, and young adults who have been trafficked for sexual or labour exploitation. Once we have ensured their safety, we provide children and young adults with everything they need to heal, rebuild their lives, and thrive. Blue Dragon uses lessons from the front line to inform sustainable interventions for communities and advocate for improvements in policy and law to guarantee the safety of all children and youth in Vietnam. About IHG ® IHG Hotels & Resorts [ LON:IHG , NYSE:IHG (ADRs)] is a global hospitality company, with a purpose to provide True Hospitality for Good. With a family of 17 hotel brands and IHG Rewards , one of the world's largest hotel loyalty programmes, IHG has over 6,000 open hotels in more than 100 countries, and a further 1,800 in the development pipeline. Luxury & Lifestyle: Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas , Regent Hotels & Resorts , InterContinental Hotels & Resorts , Vignette Collection , Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants , Hotel Indigo Premium: voco Hotels , HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts , Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts , EVEN Hotels Essentials: Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts , Holiday Inn Express , avid hotels Suites: Atwell Suites , Staybridge Suites , Holiday Inn Club Vacations , Candlewood Suites InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is the Group's holding company and is incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Approximately 350,000 people work across IHG's hotels and corporate offices globally. Visit us online for more about our hotels and reservations and IHG Rewards . For our latest news, visit our Newsroom and follow us on LinkedIn , Facebook and Twitter . IHG Hotel Group Your content on Hospitality Net? Hospitality Net membership explained Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam – An estimated one in five children live in poverty in Vietnam, many of whom are forced to move from their villages to major cities such as Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. There, they live on the streets in an attempt to financially support their families, leaving them exposed to danger and violence. Since 2020, IHG Hotels & Resorts has partnered with Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation , a non-profit working to end human trafficking in Vietnam, to force change and offer shelter, support and hope to these homeless and innocent children. This year, IHG has strengthened this collaboration with an agreement to support 10,000 of these disadvantaged young people. The company will pledge funds to provide scholarships, educational assistance and textbooks for ethnic minority students, raise awareness about the risks of unsafe migration and child labour, and provide career orientation sessions to students in Dien Bien. This support, aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals of ‘No Poverty’, ‘Quality Education’ and ‘Reduced Inequality’, continues IHG’s great tradition in this area. For many years, its colleagues have volunteered and raised funds to provide street children and young adults with access to education and training, while two trainees from Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation are currently working in IHG hotels. IHG is invested in this partnership and our colleagues are passionately supporting the cause, with every one of our 16 hotels in Vietnam helping the Foundation through a range of meaningful efforts and activities. These are aligned with the commitments of Journey To Tomorrow – IHG’s 10-year action plan to drive change for our people, communities and planet – and we will continue to support efforts to provide the younger generation with a better future as we deliver on our purpose of True Hospitality for Good. Paul Cunningham, Senior Director, Operations, South East Asia and Korea, IHG Hotels & Resorts As a grassroots charity, we believe that every single child deserves a chance at a great life and are striving to empower them through a broad range of experiences and opportunities. With partners like IHG, we have been able to work with thousands of children and families from all around Vietnam as we continue on our journey to help children in crisis. Do Duy Vi, co-CEO, Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation IHG supported the annual Blue Dragon Marathon Walk 2023 in September, joining hundreds of people around the world to raise funds for vulnerable communities in Vietnam, and raising over 60 million dong thanks to the efforts of its participants and contributors, including hotel guests. The IHG team participated for the third year running, through a coordinated effort across its properties in the country, including Crowne Plaza Phu Quoc Starbay, Regent Phu Quoc, InterContinental Phu Quoc Long Beach Resort, InterContinental Hanoi Landmark72, InterContinental Hanoi Westlake, InterContinental Nha Trang and Crowne Plaza Vinh Yen City Centre. Select IHG hotels in Vietnam are also displaying Blue Dragon products for sale, with all proceeds going to the Foundation. To support Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation, visit its website at https://www.bluedragon.org/ . Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation aims to end the trafficking and exploitation of Vietnamese people. We rescue children from homelessness and the dangers of the streets, and young adults who have been trafficked for sexual or labour exploitation. Once we have ensured their safety, we provide children and young adults with everything they need to heal, rebuild their lives, and thrive. Blue Dragon uses lessons from the front line to inform sustainable interventions for communities and advocate for improvements in policy and law to guarantee the safety of all children and youth in Vietnam. IHG Hotels & Resorts [ LON:IHG , NYSE:IHG (ADRs)] is a global hospitality company, with a purpose to provide True Hospitality for Good. With a family of 17 hotel brands and IHG Rewards , one of the world's largest hotel loyalty programmes, IHG has over 6,000 open hotels in more than 100 countries, and a further 1,800 in the development pipeline. InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is the Group's holding company and is incorporated and registered in England and Wales. Approximately 350,000 people work across IHG's hotels and corporate offices globally. Visit us online for more about our hotels and reservations and IHG Rewards . For our latest news, visit our Newsroom and follow us on LinkedIn , Facebook and Twitter . Hospitality Net membership explained