 Stay in the know Get your AFRO A CARD today! Print + Digital Access Digital Access Chipotle will pay $300,000 to resolve allegations of child labor law violations in D.C. Share this: Get your AFRO A CARD today! Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer Latest About Us Contact More Sign In Sign up to our free newsletter to get the latest news delivered straight to your inbox. Help us Continue to tell OUR Story and join the AFRO family as a member. Members will receive exclusive journalism, and directly support the future of the AFRO. You can choose from three membership plans below. In order to proceed to the payment details page, please set up an online email account that you would like this subscription tied to. Posted in BUSINESS , D.C. Community , Food , LIFE & STYLE , NEWS , News , Washington D.C. News Chipotle will pay $300,000 to resolve allegations of child labor law violations in D.C. by Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer September 19, 2023 September 20, 2023 Share this: Facebook X Chipotle will pay the city $322,400 to resolve allegations of child labor law violations after an investigation D.C. Office of the Attorney General investigation discovered more than 800 potential violations. (Photo courtesy of the Associated Press Keith Srakocic) By Megan Sayles, AFRO Business Writer, msayles@afro.com After an investigation into allegations of D.C. child labor law violations, Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle) has agreed to pay the city $322,400 and institute a new training and workplace compliance plan. The Office of the Attorney General (OAG) reportedly determined hundreds of instances of minors working more hours than the legal cap at the fast-casual chain. Chipotle, which operates 20 restaurants in D.C., settled similar allegations with the state of New Jersey and Massachusetts in previous years. “This outcome continues the OAG’s proven track record of enforcing D.C.’s labor protections to the fullest extent of the law,” said Attorney General Brian Schwalb. “We will put this settlement to good use by helping connect District youth with apprenticeships and workforce training opportunities, building on our efforts to ensure that all young people in the District have the chance to thrive and succeed.” Sign up for our Daily eBlast to get coverage on Black communities from the media company who has been doing it right for over 130 years. In D.C., child labor laws prevent minors from working more than six consecutive days in a week, more than eight hours in a day and more than 48 hours in one week, according to the Code of the District of Columbia. Those aged 16 or 17 are also unable to work before 6 a.m. and after 10 p.m. on any day. Those under 16 cannot work before 7 a.m. or after 7 p.m. on any day, except for during the summer when the evening cutoff is 9 p.m. The OAG began investigating Chipotle in the spring of 2022 after other states and cities alleged that the chain was violating local child labor laws. Over the course of its investigation, the agency determined more than 800 potential violations, according to a release from the OAG. “We are committed to ensuring that our restaurants are in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and we believe that in hiring workers beginning at age 16, we can provide younger employees with valuable experiences and an opportunity for advancement,” said Laurie Schalow, chief corporate affairs officer for Chipotle Mexican Grill. “We have reached a settlement with the Washington, D.C. Office of the Attorney General for events dating back to 2020 and have implemented an enhanced labor scheduling program in our restaurants, creating a more efficient, consistent and compliant environment.” In the settlement, Chipotle denied the allegations of child labor law violations but committed itself to enacting new processes to ensure its compliance. Chipotle’s agreement with the District includes providing general managers and supervisors with documented training on D.C. child labor laws within six months of their hiring or promotion and providing minors with a copy of the District’s labor policy during their onboarding. “Chipotle gives workers, including younger employees, industry-leading benefits such as debt-free degrees, tuition reimbursement up to $5,250 per year, access to mental healthcare, financial planning tools, and the opportunity for quarterly bonuses for all employees, including hourly crew members, up to a month’s worth of pay per year,” said Schalow. “We also provide transparent career progression showing how Chipotle crew members can advance to a Restaurateur, the highest general manager position, in as little as three and a half years, with a total potential compensation package of approximately $100,000 while leading a multi-million-dollar growing business.” Megan Sayles is a Report for America Corps member. Get your AFRO A CARD today! Help us Continue to tell OUR Story and join the AFRO family as a member. Members will receive exclusive journalism, and directly support the future of the AFRO. You can choose from three membership plans below. Subscribe to AFRO News Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer Megan Sayles is a business reporter for The Baltimore Afro-American paper. Before this, Sayles interned with Baltimore Magazine, where she wrote feature stories about the city’s residents, nonprofits... More by Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer " " Latest Building a more inclusive economy: Q&A with JPMorgan Chase’s Thelma Ferguson March 12, 2024 This Women’s History Month, Regional Philanthropist Leader Talks Career, Finances and Motivation March 15, 2024 Anne Benna Sims: American Ballet Theatre’s first African-American ballerina March 15, 2024 A purpose fulfilled: Honoring the work of comedian and community activist Pamela “Ms. Maybelle” Leak March 14, 2024 Meet Ret. Lt. Cmdr. Brenda E. Robinson: The U.S. Navy’s first African-American female pilot March 14, 2024 “Six-Triple-Eight: A New Musical,” to honor Black women of WWII’s European Theater March 14, 2024 Greater Baltimore Urban League launches search for new CEO March 14, 2024 U.S. House passes bill that could ban TikTok March 13, 2024 Upcoming meetings and events in the Baltimore area March 13, 2024 Upcoming meetings and events in the D.C. area March 13, 2024 Empowering creativity: Highlights from the Black Arts District’s annual meeting March 12, 2024 Commentary: Tackling the affordable housing crisis in Baltimore County March 12, 2024 By Megan Sayles, AFRO Business Writer, msayles@afro.com After an investigation into allegations of D.C. child labor law violations, Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle) has agreed to pay the city $322,400 and institute a new training and workplace compliance plan. The Office of the Attorney General (OAG) reportedly determined hundreds of instances of minors working more hours than the legal cap at the fast-casual chain. Chipotle, which operates 20 restaurants in D.C., settled similar allegations with the state of New Jersey and Massachusetts in previous years. “This outcome continues the OAG’s proven track record of enforcing D.C.’s labor protections to the fullest extent of the law,” said Attorney General Brian Schwalb. “We will put this settlement to good use by helping connect District youth with apprenticeships and workforce training opportunities, building on our efforts to ensure that all young people in the District have the chance to thrive and succeed.” Sign up for our Daily eBlast to get coverage on Black communities from the media company who has been doing it right for over 130 years. In D.C., child labor laws prevent minors from working more than six consecutive days in a week, more than eight hours in a day and more than 48 hours in one week, according to the Code of the District of Columbia. Those aged 16 or 17 are also unable to work before 6 a.m. and after 10 p.m. on any day. Those under 16 cannot work before 7 a.m. or after 7 p.m. on any day, except for during the summer when the evening cutoff is 9 p.m. The OAG began investigating Chipotle in the spring of 2022 after other states and cities alleged that the chain was violating local child labor laws. Over the course of its investigation, the agency determined more than 800 potential violations, according to a release from the OAG. “We are committed to ensuring that our restaurants are in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and we believe that in hiring workers beginning at age 16, we can provide younger employees with valuable experiences and an opportunity for advancement,” said Laurie Schalow, chief corporate affairs officer for Chipotle Mexican Grill. “We have reached a settlement with the Washington, D.C. Office of the Attorney General for events dating back to 2020 and have implemented an enhanced labor scheduling program in our restaurants, creating a more efficient, consistent and compliant environment.” In the settlement, Chipotle denied the allegations of child labor law violations but committed itself to enacting new processes to ensure its compliance. Chipotle’s agreement with the District includes providing general managers and supervisors with documented training on D.C. child labor laws within six months of their hiring or promotion and providing minors with a copy of the District’s labor policy during their onboarding. “Chipotle gives workers, including younger employees, industry-leading benefits such as debt-free degrees, tuition reimbursement up to $5,250 per year, access to mental healthcare, financial planning tools, and the opportunity for quarterly bonuses for all employees, including hourly crew members, up to a month’s worth of pay per year,” said Schalow. “We also provide transparent career progression showing how Chipotle crew members can advance to a Restaurateur, the highest general manager position, in as little as three and a half years, with a total potential compensation package of approximately $100,000 while leading a multi-million-dollar growing business.” Megan Sayles is a Report for America Corps member. Get your AFRO A CARD today! Help us Continue to tell OUR Story and join the AFRO family as a member. Members will receive exclusive journalism, and directly support the future of the AFRO. You can choose from three membership plans below. Subscribe to AFRO News Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer Megan Sayles is a business reporter for The Baltimore Afro-American paper. Before this, Sayles interned with Baltimore Magazine, where she wrote feature stories about the city’s residents, nonprofits... More by Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer By Megan Sayles, AFRO Business Writer, msayles@afro.com After an investigation into allegations of D.C. child labor law violations, Chipotle Mexican Grill (Chipotle) has agreed to pay the city $322,400 and institute a new training and workplace compliance plan. The Office of the Attorney General (OAG) reportedly determined hundreds of instances of minors working more hours than the legal cap at the fast-casual chain. Chipotle, which operates 20 restaurants in D.C., settled similar allegations with the state of New Jersey and Massachusetts in previous years. “This outcome continues the OAG’s proven track record of enforcing D.C.’s labor protections to the fullest extent of the law,” said Attorney General Brian Schwalb. “We will put this settlement to good use by helping connect District youth with apprenticeships and workforce training opportunities, building on our efforts to ensure that all young people in the District have the chance to thrive and succeed.” Sign up for our Daily eBlast to get coverage on Black communities from the media company who has been doing it right for over 130 years. In D.C., child labor laws prevent minors from working more than six consecutive days in a week, more than eight hours in a day and more than 48 hours in one week, according to the Code of the District of Columbia. Those aged 16 or 17 are also unable to work before 6 a.m. and after 10 p.m. on any day. Those under 16 cannot work before 7 a.m. or after 7 p.m. on any day, except for during the summer when the evening cutoff is 9 p.m. The OAG began investigating Chipotle in the spring of 2022 after other states and cities alleged that the chain was violating local child labor laws. Over the course of its investigation, the agency determined more than 800 potential violations, according to a release from the OAG. “We are committed to ensuring that our restaurants are in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and we believe that in hiring workers beginning at age 16, we can provide younger employees with valuable experiences and an opportunity for advancement,” said Laurie Schalow, chief corporate affairs officer for Chipotle Mexican Grill. “We have reached a settlement with the Washington, D.C. Office of the Attorney General for events dating back to 2020 and have implemented an enhanced labor scheduling program in our restaurants, creating a more efficient, consistent and compliant environment.” In the settlement, Chipotle denied the allegations of child labor law violations but committed itself to enacting new processes to ensure its compliance. Chipotle’s agreement with the District includes providing general managers and supervisors with documented training on D.C. child labor laws within six months of their hiring or promotion and providing minors with a copy of the District’s labor policy during their onboarding. “Chipotle gives workers, including younger employees, industry-leading benefits such as debt-free degrees, tuition reimbursement up to $5,250 per year, access to mental healthcare, financial planning tools, and the opportunity for quarterly bonuses for all employees, including hourly crew members, up to a month’s worth of pay per year,” said Schalow. “We also provide transparent career progression showing how Chipotle crew members can advance to a Restaurateur, the highest general manager position, in as little as three and a half years, with a total potential compensation package of approximately $100,000 while leading a multi-million-dollar growing business.” Megan Sayles is a Report for America Corps member. Help us Continue to tell OUR Story and join the AFRO family as a member. Members will receive exclusive journalism, and directly support the future of the AFRO. You can choose from three membership plans below. Megan Sayles is a business reporter for The Baltimore Afro-American paper. Before this, Sayles interned with Baltimore Magazine, where she wrote feature stories about the city’s residents, nonprofits... More by Megan Sayles AFRO Business Writer " " Latest Building a more inclusive economy: Q&A with JPMorgan Chase’s Thelma Ferguson March 12, 2024 This Women’s History Month, Regional Philanthropist Leader Talks Career, Finances and Motivation March 15, 2024 Anne Benna Sims: American Ballet Theatre’s first African-American ballerina March 15, 2024 A purpose fulfilled: Honoring the work of comedian and community activist Pamela “Ms. Maybelle” Leak March 14, 2024 Meet Ret. Lt. Cmdr. Brenda E. Robinson: The U.S. Navy’s first African-American female pilot March 14, 2024 “Six-Triple-Eight: A New Musical,” to honor Black women of WWII’s European Theater March 14, 2024 Greater Baltimore Urban League launches search for new CEO March 14, 2024 U.S. House passes bill that could ban TikTok March 13, 2024 Upcoming meetings and events in the Baltimore area March 13, 2024 Upcoming meetings and events in the D.C. area March 13, 2024 Empowering creativity: Highlights from the Black Arts District’s annual meeting March 12, 2024 Commentary: Tackling the affordable housing crisis in Baltimore County March 12, 2024 About Us The AFRO knows what it’s like to endure challenging times. John H. Murphy, Sr., a former enslaved man founded the AFRO in 1892 with $200 from his wife, Martha Howard Murphy. Together they created a platform to offer images and stories of hope to advance their community. The AFRO provides readers with good news about the Black community not otherwise found. Learn More The AFRO knows what it’s like to endure challenging times. John H. Murphy, Sr., a former enslaved man founded the AFRO in 1892 with $200 from his wife, Martha Howard Murphy. Together they created a platform to offer images and stories of hope to advance their community. The AFRO provides readers with good news about the Black community not otherwise found. Learn More Contact Baltimore, MD Office 233 E. Redwood Street Suite 600G Baltimore, MD 21202 Washington, DC Office Uline Arena Building 1140 3rd St., 2nd Flr, NE Washington, DC 20002 Voice: 410-554-8200 Email: customerservice@afro.com Baltimore, MD Office 233 E. Redwood Street Suite 600G Baltimore, MD 21202 Washington, DC Office Uline Arena Building 1140 3rd St., 2nd Flr, NE Washington, DC 20002 Voice: 410-554-8200 Email: customerservice@afro.com More About Us Contact Us Advertise Policies Subscribe My Account We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox! Sign in with a password below, or sign in using your email . Get a code sent to your email to sign in, or sign in using a password . Enter the code you received via email to sign in, or sign in using a password . Subscribe to our newsletters: Sign in with your email Lost your password? Try a different email Send another code Sign in with a password By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions.